Thersites!Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over,generally?Thersites!And those boils did run? say so: did not thegeneral run then? were not that a botchy core?Dog!Then would come some matter from him; I see none now.Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear?Feel, then.The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrelbeef-witted lord!Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I willbeat thee into handsomeness.I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but,I think, thy horse will sooner con an oration thanthou learn a prayer without book. Thou canst strike,canst thou? a red murrain o' thy jade's tricks!Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?The proclamation!Thou art proclaimed a fool, I think.Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch.I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I hadthe scratching of thee; I would make thee theloathsomest scab in Greece. When thou art forth inthe incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.I say, the proclamation!Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles,and thou art as full of envy at his greatness asCerberus is at Proserpine's beauty, ay, that thoubarkest at him.Mistress Thersites!Thou shouldest strike him.Cobloaf!He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as asailor breaks a biscuit.[Beating him]  You whoreson cur!Do, do.Thou stool for a witch!Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast nomore brain than I have in mine elbows; an assinegomay tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass! thou arthere but to thrash Trojans; and thou art bought andsold among those of any wit, like a barbarian slave.If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel, andtell what thou art by inches, thou thing of nobowels, thou!You dog!You scurvy lord![Beating him]  You cur!Mars his idiot! do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do.Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you thus? How now,Thersites! what's the matter, man?You see him there, do you?Ay; what's the matter?Nay, look upon him.So I do: what's the matter?Nay, but regard him well.'Well!' why, I do so.But yet you look not well upon him; for whosoever youtake him to be, he is Ajax.I know that, fool.Ay, but that fool knows not himself.Therefore I beat thee.Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! hisevasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed hisbrain more than he has beat my bones: I will buynine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is notworth the nineth part of a sparrow. This lord,Achilles, Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly andhis guts in his head, I'll tell you what I say ofhim.What?I say, this Ajax--Nay, good Ajax.Has not so much wit--Nay, I must hold you.As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom hecomes to fight.Peace, fool!I would have peace and quietness, but the fool willnot: he there: that he: look you there.O thou damned cur! I shall--Will you set your wit to a fool's?No, I warrant you; for a fools will shame it.Good words, Thersites.What's the quarrel?I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenor of theproclamation, and he rails upon me.I serve thee not.Well, go to, go to.I serve here voluntarily.Your last service was sufferance, 'twas notvoluntary: no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax washere the voluntary, and you as under an impress.E'en so; a great deal of your wit, too, lies in yoursinews, or else there be liars. Hector have a greatcatch, if he knock out either of your brains: a'were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.What, with me too, Thersites?There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldyere your grandsires had nails on their toes, yoke youlike draught-oxen and make you plough up the wars.What, what?Yes, good sooth: to, Achilles! to, Ajax! to!I shall cut out your tongue.'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thouafterwards.No more words, Thersites; peace!I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I?There's for you, Patroclus.I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I comeany more to your tents: I will keep where there iswit stirring and leave the faction of fools.A good riddance.Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host:That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and TroyTo-morrow morning call some knight to armsThat hath a stomach; and such a one that dareMaintain--I know not what: 'tis trash. Farewell.Farewell. Who shall answer him?I know not: 'tis put to lottery; otherwiseHe knew his man.O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it.