Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Killand knock down! throw them into Thames!What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold tosound retreat or parley, when I command them kill?Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee:Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the kingUnto the commons whom thou hast misled;And here pronounce free pardon to them allThat will forsake thee and go home in peace.What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent,And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you;Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths?Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon,Fling up his cap, and say 'God save his majesty!'Who hateth him and honours not his father,Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.God save the king! God save the king!What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave? Andyou, base peasants, do ye believe him? will youneeds be hanged with your pardons about your necks?Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates,that you should leave me at the White Hart inSouthwark? I thought ye would never have given outthese arms till you had recovered your ancientfreedom: but you are all recreants and dastards,and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Letthem break your backs with burthens, take yourhouses over your heads, ravish your wives anddaughters before your faces: for me, I will makeshift for one; and so, God's curse light upon youall!We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?Will he conduct you through the heart of France,And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to;Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,Unless by robbing of your friends and us.Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar,The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?Methinks already in this civil broilI see them lording it in London streets,Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet.Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarryThan you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy.To France, to France, and get what you have lost;Spare England, for it is your native coast;Henry hath money, you are strong and manly;God on our side, doubt not of victory.A Clifford! a Clifford! we'll follow the king and Clifford.Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as thismultitude? The name of Henry the Fifth hales themto an hundred mischiefs, and makes them leave medesolate. I see them lay their heads together tosurprise me. My sword make way for me, for here isno staying. In despite of the devils and hell, havethrough the very middest of you? and heavens andhonour be witness, that no want of resolution in me.but only my followers' base and ignominioustreasons, makes me betake me to my heels.What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;And he that brings his head unto the kingShall have a thousand crowns for his reward.Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a meanTo reconcile you all unto the king.