I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!Yet must not we put the strong law on him:He's loved of the distracted multitude,Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,This sudden sending him away must seemDeliberate pause: diseases desperate grownBy desperate appliance are relieved,Or not at all.How now! what hath befall'n?Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,We cannot get from him.But where is he?Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.Bring him before us.Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?At supper.At supper! where?Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certainconvocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Yourworm is your only emperor for diet: we fat allcreatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves formaggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is butvariable service, two dishes, but to one table:that's the end.Alas, alas!A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of aking, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.What dost you mean by this?Nothing but to show you how a king may go aprogress through the guts of a beggar.Where is Polonius?In heaven; send hither to see: if your messengerfind him not there, seek him i' the other placeyourself. But indeed, if you find him not withinthis month, you shall nose him as you go up thestairs into the lobby.Go seek him there.He will stay till ye come.Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--Which we do tender, as we dearly grieveFor that which thou hast done,--must send thee henceWith fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;The bark is ready, and the wind at help,The associates tend, and every thing is bentFor England.For England!Ay, Hamlet.Good.So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; forEngland! Farewell, dear mother.Thy loving father, Hamlet.My mother: father and mother is man and wife; manand wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:Away! for every thing is seal'd and doneThat else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--As my great power thereof may give thee sense,Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and redAfter the Danish sword, and thy free awePays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly setOur sovereign process; which imports at full,By letters congruing to that effect,The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;For like the hectic in my blood he rages,And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.