Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it toyou, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,as many of your players do, I had as lief thetown-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the airtoo much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and begeta temperance that may give it smoothness. O, itoffends me to the soul to hear a robustiousperiwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, tovery rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, whofor the most part are capable of nothing butinexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have sucha fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; itout-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.I warrant your honour.Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretionbe your tutor: suit the action to the word, theword to the action; with this special o'erstep notthe modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone isfrom the purpose of playing, whose end, both at thefirst and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, themirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,scorn her own image, and the very age and body ofthe time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,or come tardy off, though it make the unskilfullaugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; thecensure of the which one must in your allowanceo'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there beplayers that I have seen play, and heard otherspraise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,that, neither having the accent of Christians northe gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have sostrutted and bellowed that I have thought some ofnature's journeymen had made men and not made themwell, they imitated humanity so abominably.I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,sir.O, reform it altogether. And let those that playyour clowns speak no more than is set down for them;for there be of them that will themselves laugh, toset on some quantity of barren spectators to laughtoo; though, in the mean time, some necessaryquestion of the play be then to be considered:that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambitionin the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?And the queen too, and that presently.Bid the players make haste.Will you two help to hasten them?We will, my lord.What ho! Horatio!Here, sweet lord, at your service.Horatio, thou art e'en as just a manAs e'er my conversation coped withal.O, my dear lord,--Nay, do not think I flatter;For what advancement may I hope from theeThat no revenue hast but thy good spirits,To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,And crook the pregnant hinges of the kneeWhere thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?Since my dear soul was mistress of her choiceAnd could of men distinguish, her electionHath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast beenAs one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,A man that fortune's buffets and rewardsHast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are thoseWhose blood and judgment are so well commingled,That they are not a pipe for fortune's fingerTo sound what stop she please. Give me that manThat is not passion's slave, and I will wear himIn my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--There is a play to-night before the king;One scene of it comes near the circumstanceWhich I have told thee of my father's death:I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,Even with the very comment of thy soulObserve mine uncle: if his occulted guiltDo not itself unkennel in one speech,It is a damned ghost that we have seen,And my imaginations are as foulAs Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,And after we will both our judgments joinIn censure of his seeming.Well, my lord:If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.They are coming to the play; I must be idle:Get you a place.How fares our cousin Hamlet?Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eatthe air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these wordsare not mine.No, nor mine now.My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.What did you enact?I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' theCapitol; Brutus killed me.It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calfthere. Be the players ready?Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?Lady, shall I lie in your lap?No, my lord.I mean, my head upon your lap?Ay, my lord.Do you think I meant country matters?I think nothing, my lord.That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.What is, my lord?Nothing.You are merry, my lord.Who, I?Ay, my lord.O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man dobut be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully mymother looks, and my father died within these two hours.Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, forI'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die twomonths ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there'shope a great man's memory may outlive his life halfa year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, withthe hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,the hobby-horse is forgot.'What means this, my lord?Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.Belike this show imports the argument of the play.We shall know by this fellow: the players cannotkeep counsel; they'll tell all.Will he tell us what this show meant?Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not youashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.For us, and for our tragedy,Here stooping to your clemency,We beg your hearing patiently.Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?'Tis brief, my lord.As woman's love.Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone roundNeptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheenAbout the world have times twelve thirties been,Since love our hearts and Hymen did our handsUnite commutual in most sacred bands.So many journeys may the sun and moonMake us again count o'er ere love be done!But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,So far from cheer and from your former state,That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:For women's fear and love holds quantity;In neither aught, or in extremity.Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;And as my love is sized, my fear is so:Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;My operant powers their functions leave to do:And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kindFor husband shalt thou--O, confound the rest!Such love must needs be treason in my breast:In second husband let me be accurst!None wed the second but who kill'd the first.[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.The instances that second marriage moveAre base respects of thrift, but none of love:A second time I kill my husband dead,When second husband kisses me in bed.I do believe you think what now you speak;But what we do determine oft we break.Purpose is but the slave to memory,Of violent birth, but poor validity;Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.Most necessary 'tis that we forgetTo pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:What to ourselves in passion we propose,The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.The violence of either grief or joyTheir own enactures with themselves destroy:Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strangeThat even our loves should with our fortunes change;For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;For who not needs shall never lack a friend,And who in want a hollow friend doth try,Directly seasons him his enemy.But, orderly to end where I begun,Our wills and fates do so contrary runThat our devices still are overthrown;Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:So think thou wilt no second husband wed;But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!Sport and repose lock from me day and night!To desperation turn my trust and hope!An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!Each opposite that blanks the face of joyMeet what I would have well and it destroy!Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,If, once a widow, ever I be wife!If she should break it now!'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguileThe tedious day with sleep.Sleep rock thy brain,And never come mischance between us twain!Madam, how like you this play?The lady protests too much, methinks.O, but she'll keep her word.Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offencei' the world.What do you call the play?The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This playis the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago isthe duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall seeanon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'that? your majesty and we that have free souls, ittouches us not: let the galled jade wince, ourwithers are unwrung.This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.You are as good as a chorus, my lord.I could interpret between you and your love, if Icould see the puppets dallying.You are keen, my lord, you are keen.It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.Still better, and worse.So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;Confederate season, else no creature seeing;Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,Thy natural magic and dire property,On wholesome life usurp immediately.He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. Hisname's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ inchoice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderergets the love of Gonzago's wife.The king rises.What, frighted with false fire!How fares my lord?Give o'er the play.Give me some light: away!Lights, lights, lights!Why, let the stricken deer go weep,The hart ungalled play;For some must watch, while some must sleep:So runs the world away.Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- ifthe rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with twoProvincial roses on my razed shoes, get me afellowship in a cry of players, sir?Half a share.A whole one, I.For thou dost know, O Damon dear,This realm dismantled wasOf Jove himself; and now reigns hereA very, very--pajock.You might have rhymed.O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for athousand pound. Didst perceive?Very well, my lord.Upon the talk of the poisoning?I did very well note him.Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!For if the king like not the comedy,Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.Come, some music!Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.Sir, a whole history.The king, sir,--Ay, sir, what of him?Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.With drink, sir?No, my lord, rather with choler.Your wisdom should show itself more richer tosignify this to his doctor; for, for me to put himto his purgation would perhaps plunge him into farmore choler.Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame andstart not so wildly from my affair.I am tame, sir: pronounce.The queen, your mother, in most great affliction ofspirit, hath sent me to you.You are welcome.Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the rightbreed. If it shall please you to make me awholesome answer, I will do your mother'scommandment: if not, your pardon and my returnshall be the end of my business.Sir, I cannot.What, my lord?Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore nomore, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck herinto amazement and admiration.O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! Butis there no sequel at the heels of this mother'sadmiration? Impart.She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere yougo to bed.We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Haveyou any further trade with us?My lord, you once did love me.So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? youdo, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, ifyou deny your griefs to your friend.Sir, I lack advancement.How can that be, when you have the voice of the kinghimself for your succession in Denmark?Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverbis something musty.O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw withyou:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,as if you would drive me into a toil?O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is toounmannerly.I do not well understand that. Will you play uponthis pipe?My lord, I cannot.I pray you.Believe me, I cannot.I do beseech you.I know no touch of it, my lord.'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages withyour fingers and thumb, give it breath with yourmouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.Look you, these are the stops.But these cannot I command to any utterance ofharmony; I have not the skill.Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make ofme! You would play upon me; you would seem to knowmy stops; you would pluck out the heart of mymystery; you would sound me from my lowest note tothe top of my compass: and there is much music,excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannotyou make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I ameasier to be played on than a pipe? Call me whatinstrument you will, though you can fret me, yet youcannot play upon me.God bless you, sir!My lord, the queen would speak with you, andpresently.Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.Methinks it is like a weasel.It is backed like a weasel.Or like a whale?Very like a whale.Then I will come to my mother by and by. They foolme to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.I will say so.By and by is easily said.Leave me, friends.Tis now the very witching time of night,When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes outContagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,And do such bitter business as the dayWould quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.O heart, lose not thy nature; let not everThe soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:Let me be cruel, not unnatural:I will speak daggers to her, but use none;My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;How in my words soever she be shent,To give them seals never, my soul, consent!