'But for mine own part, my lord, I could be wellcontented to be there, in respect of the love I bearyour house.' He could be contented: why is he not,then? In respect of the love he bears our house:he shows in this, he loves his own barn better thanhe loves our house. Let me see some more. 'Thepurpose you undertake is dangerous;'--why, that'scertain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, todrink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of thisnettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'Thepurpose you undertake is dangerous; the friends youhave named uncertain; the time itself unsorted; andyour whole plot too light for the counterpoise of sogreat an opposition.' Say you so, say you so? I sayunto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, andyou lie.  What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord,our plot is a good plot as ever was laid; ourfriends true and constant: a good plot, goodfriends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot,very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue isthis! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and thegeneral course of action. 'Zounds, an I were now bythis rascal, I could brain him with his lady's fan.Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lordEdmund Mortimer, My lord of York and Owen Glendower?is there not besides the Douglas? have I not alltheir letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of thenext month? and are they not some of them setforward already? What a pagan rascal is this! aninfidel! Ha! you shall see now in very sincerityof fear and cold heart, will he to the king and layopen all our proceedings. O, I could divide myselfand go to buffets, for moving such a dish ofskim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him!let him tell the king: we are prepared. I will setforward to-night.How now, Kate! I must leave you within these two hours.O, my good lord, why are you thus alone?For what offence have I this fortnight beenA banish'd woman from my Harry's bed?Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from theeThy stomach, pleasure and thy golden sleep?Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,And start so often when thou sit'st alone?Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks;And given my treasures and my rights of theeTo thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy?In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd,And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars;Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed;Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'dOf sallies and retires, of trenches, tents,Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain,And all the currents of a heady fight.Thy spirit within thee hath been so at warAnd thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,That beads of sweat have stood upon thy browLike bubbles in a late-disturbed stream;And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,Such as we see when men restrain their breathOn some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,And I must know it, else he loves me not.What, ho!Is Gilliams with the packet gone?He is, my lord, an hour ago.Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?One horse, my lord, he brought even now.What horse? a roan, a crop-ear, is it not?It is, my lord.That roan shall by my throne.Well, I will back him straight: O esperance!Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.But hear you, my lord.What say'st thou, my lady?What is it carries you away?Why, my horse, my love, my horse.Out, you mad-headed ape!A weasel hath not such a deal of spleenAs you are toss'd with. In faith,I'll know your business, Harry, that I will.I fear my brother Mortimer doth stirAbout his title, and hath sent for youTo line his enterprise: but if you go,--So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.Come, come, you paraquito, answer meDirectly unto this question that I ask:In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry,An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.Away,Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not,I care not for thee, Kate: this is no worldTo play with mammets and to tilt with lips:We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thouhave with me?Do you not love me? do you not, indeed?Well, do not then; for since you love me not,I will not love myself. Do you not love me?Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.Come, wilt thou see me ride?And when I am on horseback, I will swearI love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate;I must not have you henceforth question meWhither I go, nor reason whereabout:Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude,This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.I know you wise, but yet no farther wiseThan Harry Percy's wife: constant you are,But yet a woman: and for secrecy,No lady closer; for I well believeThou wilt not utter what thou dost not know;And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.How! so far?Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:Whither I go, thither shall you go too;To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.Will this content you, Kate?It must of force.