What is thy name, that in the battle thusThou crossest me? what honour dost thou seekUpon my head?Know then, my name is Douglas;And I do haunt thee in the battle thusBecause some tell me that thou art a king.They tell thee true.The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath boughtThy likeness, for instead of thee, King Harry,This sword hath ended him: so shall it thee,Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot;And thou shalt find a king that will revengeLord Stafford's death.O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,never had triumph'd upon a Scot.All's done, all's won; here breathless lies the king.Where?Here.This, Douglas? no: I know this face full well:A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt;Semblably furnish'd like the king himself.A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear:Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?The king hath many marching in his coats.Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats;I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece,Until I meet the king.Up, and away!Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day.Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fearthe shot here; here's no scoring but upon the pate.Soft! who are you? Sir Walter Blunt: there's honourfor you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as moultenlead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! Ineed no more weight than mine own bowels. I haveled my ragamuffins where they are peppered: there'snot three of my hundred and fifty left alive; andthey are for the town's end, to beg during life.But who comes here?What, stand'st thou idle here? lend me thy sword:Many a nobleman lies stark and stiffUnder the hoofs of vaunting enemies,Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee,lend me thy sword.O Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile.Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I havedone this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.He is, indeed; and living to kill thee. I prithee,lend me thy sword.Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'stnot my sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.Give it to me: what, is it in the case?Ay, Hal; 'tis hot, 'tis hot; there's that will sack a city.What, is it a time to jest and dally now?Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he docome in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in hiswillingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I likenot such grinning honour as Sir Walter hath: give melife: which if I can save, so; if not, honour comesunlooked for, and there's an end.