Come, shelter, shelter: I have removed Falstaff'shorse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.Stand close.Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal! what a brawling dostthou keep!Where's Poins, Hal?He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.I am accursed to rob in that thief's company: therascal hath removed my horse, and tied him I knownot where. If I travel but four foot by the squierfurther afoot, I shall break my wind. Well, I doubtnot but to die a fair death for all this, if I'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I haveforsworn his company hourly any time this two andtwenty years, and yet I am bewitched with therogue's company. If the rascal hath not given memedicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged; itcould not be else: I have drunk medicines. Poins!Hal! a plague upon you both! Bardolph! Peto!I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An 'twerenot as good a deed as drink, to turn true man and toleave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet thatever chewed with a tooth. Eight yards of unevenground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me;and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough:a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another!Whew! A plague upon you all! Give me my horse, yourogues; give me my horse, and be hanged!Peace, ye fat-guts! lie down; lay thine ear closeto the ground and list if thou canst hear the treadof travellers.Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down?'Sblood, I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afootagain for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?Thou liest; thou art not colted, thou art uncolted.I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,good king's son.Out, ye rogue! shall I be your ostler?Go, hang thyself in thine own heir-apparentgarters! If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. An Ihave not ballads made on you all and sung to filthytunes, let a cup of sack be my poison: when a jestis so forward, and afoot too! I hate it.Stand.So I do, against my will.O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph,what news?Case ye, case ye; on with your vizards: there 'smoney of the king's coming down the hill; 'tis goingto the king's exchequer.You lie, ye rogue; 'tis going to the king's tavern.There's enough to make us all.To be hanged.Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane;Ned Poins and I will walk lower: if they 'scapefrom your encounter, then they light on us.How many be there of them?Some eight or ten.'Zounds, will they not rob us?What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?Indeed, I am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather;but yet no coward, Hal.Well, we leave that to the proof.Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge:when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.Farewell, and stand fast.Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hanged.Ned, where are our disguises?Here, hard by: stand close.Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I:every man to his business.Come, neighbour: the boy shall lead our horses downthe hill; we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.Stand!Jesus bless us!Strike; down with them; cut the villains' throats:ah! whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! theyhate us youth: down with them: fleece them.O, we are undone, both we and ours for ever!Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, yefat chuffs: I would your store were here! On,bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live.You are Grand-jurors, are ye? we'll jure ye, 'faith.The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thouand I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, itwould be argument for a week, laughter for a monthand a good jest for ever.Stand close; I hear them coming.Come, my masters, let us share, and then to  horsebefore day. An the Prince and Poins be not twoarrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there'sno more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.Your money!Villains!Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fearSo strongly that they dare not meet each other;Each takes his fellow for an officer.Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death,And lards the lean earth as he walks along:Were 't not for laughing, I should pity him.How the rogue roar'd!