I know you well, sir, and you knowme: your name, I think, is Adrian.It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.I am a Roman; and my services are,as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?Nicanor? no.The same, sir.You had more beard when I last saw you; but yourfavour is well approved by your tongue. What's thenews in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,to find you out there: you have well saved me aday's journey.There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; thepeople against the senators, patricians, and nobles.Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks notso: they are in a most warlike preparation, andhope to come upon them in the heat of their division.The main blaze of it is past, but a small thingwould make it flame again: for the nobles receiveso to heart the banishment of that worthyCoriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to takeall power from the people and to pluck from themtheir tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I cantell you, and is almost mature for the violentbreaking out.Coriolanus banished!Banished, sir.You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.The day serves well for them now. I have heard itsaid, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife iswhen she's fallen out with her husband. Your nobleTullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, hisgreat opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no requestof his country.He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thusaccidentally to encounter you: you have ended mybusiness, and I will merrily accompany you home.I shall, between this and supper, tell you moststrange things from Rome; all tending to the good oftheir adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?A most royal one; the centurions and their charges,distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment,and to be on foot at an hour's warning.I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am theman, I think, that shall set them in present action.So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.You take my part from me, sir; I have the most causeto be glad of yours.Well, let us go together.