Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard;make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: doit quickly; I'll call Sir Toby the whilst.Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myselfin't; and I would I were the first that everdissembled in such a gown. I am not tall enough tobecome the function well, nor lean enough to bethought a good student; but to be said an honest manand a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say acareful man and a great scholar. The competitors enter.Jove bless thee, master Parson.Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit ofPrague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittilysaid to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is;'so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson; for,what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?To him, Sir Topas.What, ho, I say! peace in this prison!The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.[Within]  Who calls there?Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvoliothe lunatic.Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man!talkest thou nothing but of ladies?Well said, Master Parson.Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good SirTopas, do not think I am mad: they have laid mehere in hideous darkness.Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the mostmodest terms; for I am one of those gentle onesthat will use the devil himself with courtesy:sayest thou that house is dark?As hell, Sir Topas.Why it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes,and the clearstores toward the south north are aslustrous as ebony; and yet complainest thou ofobstruction?I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.Madman, thou errest: I say, there is no darknessbut ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled thanthe Egyptians in their fog.I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, thoughignorance were as dark as hell; and I say, therewas never man thus abused. I am no more mad than youare: make the trial of it in any constant question.What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.What thinkest thou of his opinion?I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness:thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I willallow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lestthou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.Sir Topas, Sir Topas!My most exquisite Sir Topas!Nay, I am for all waters.Thou mightst have done this without thy beard andgown: he sees thee not.To him in thine own voice, and bring me word howthou findest him: I would we were well rid of thisknavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, Iwould he were, for I am now so far in offence withmy niece that I cannot pursue with any safety thissport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.[Singing]'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,Tell me how thy lady does.'Fool!'My lady is unkind, perdy.'Fool!'Alas, why is she so?'Fool, I say!'She loves another'--Who calls, ha?Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at myhand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper:as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful tothee for't.Master Malvolio?Ay, good fool.Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: Iam as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be nobetter in your wits than a fool.They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness,send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can toface me out of my wits.Advise you what you say; the minister is here.Malvolio, Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vainbibble babble.Sir Topas!Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I,sir? not I, sir. God be wi' you, good Sir Topas.Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.Fool, fool, fool, I say!Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I amshent for speaking to you.Good fool, help me to some light and some paper: Itell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.Well-a-day that you were, sirBy this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper andlight; and convey what I will set down to my lady:it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearingof letter did.I will help you to't. But tell me true, are younot mad indeed? or do you but counterfeit?Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see hisbrains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree: Iprithee, be gone.[Singing]I am gone, sir,And anon, sir,I'll be with you again,In a trice,Like to the old Vice,Your need to sustain;Who, with dagger of lath,In his rage and his wrath,Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:Like a mad lad,Pare thy nails, dad;Adieu, good man devil.