What a plague means my niece, to take the death ofher brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o'nights: your cousin, my lady, takes greatexceptions to your ill hours.Why, let her except, before excepted.Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modestlimits of order.Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am:these clothes are good enough to drink in; and so bethese boots too: an they be not, let them hangthemselves in their own straps.That quaffing and drinking will undo you: I heardmy lady talk of it yesterday; and of a foolishknight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?Ay, he.He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.What's that to the purpose?Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats:he's a very fool and a prodigal.Fie, that you'll say so! he plays o' theviol-de-gamboys, and speaks three or four languagesword for word without book, and hath all the goodgifts of nature.He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides thathe's a fool, he's a great quarreller: and but thathe hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust hehath in quarrelling, 'tis thought among the prudenthe would quickly have the gift of a grave.By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractorsthat say so of him. Who are they?They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.With drinking healths to my niece: I'll drink toher as long as there is a passage in my throat anddrink in Illyria: he's a coward and a coystrillthat will not drink to my niece till his brains turno' the toe like a parish-top. What, wench!Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!Sweet Sir Andrew!Bless you, fair shrew.And you too, sir.Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.What's that?My niece's chambermaid.Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.My name is Mary, sir.Good Mistress Mary Accost,--You mistake, knight; 'accost' is front her, boardher, woo her, assail her.By my troth, I would not undertake her in thiscompany. Is that the meaning of 'accost'?Fare you well, gentlemen.An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightstnever draw sword again.An you part so, mistress, I would I might neverdraw sword again. Fair lady, do you think you havefools in hand?Sir, I have not you by the hand.Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bringyour hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.Wherefore, sweet-heart? what's your metaphor?It's dry, sir.Why, I think so: I am not such an ass but I cankeep my hand dry. But what's your jest?A dry jest, sir.Are you full of them?Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends: marry,now I let go your hand, I am barren.O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did Isee thee so put down?Never in your life, I think; unless you see canaryput me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more witthan a Christian or an ordinary man has: but I am agreat eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.No question.An I thought that, I'ld forswear it. I'll ride hometo-morrow, Sir Toby.Pourquoi, my dear knight?What is 'Pourquoi'? do or not do? I would I hadbestowed that time in the tongues that I have infencing, dancing and bear-baiting: O, had I butfollowed the arts!Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.Why, would that have mended my hair?Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.But it becomes me well enough, does't not?Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff; and Ihope to see a housewife take thee between her legsand spin it off.Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niecewill not be seen; or if she be, it's four to oneshe'll none of me: the count himself here hard by woos her.She'll none o' the count: she'll not match aboveher degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; Ihave heard her swear't. Tut, there's life in't,man.I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' thestrangest mind i' the world; I delight in masquesand revels sometimes altogether.Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under thedegree of my betters; and yet I will not comparewith an old man.What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?Faith, I can cut a caper.And I can cut the mutton to't.And I think I have the back-trick simply as strongas any man in Illyria.Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore havethese gifts a curtain before 'em? are they like totake dust, like Mistress Mall's picture? why dostthou not go to church in a galliard and come home ina coranto? My very walk should be a jig; I would notso much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. Whatdost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in?I did think, by the excellent constitution of thyleg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in aflame-coloured stock. Shall we set about some revels?What shall we do else? were we not born under Taurus?Taurus! That's sides and heart.No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see thecaper; ha! higher: ha, ha! excellent!