Approach, Sir Andrew: not to be abed aftermidnight is to be up betimes; and 'diluculosurgere,' thou know'st,--Nay, my troth, I know not: but I know, to be uplate is to be up late.A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.To be up after midnight and to go to bed then, isearly: so that to go to bed after midnight is to goto bed betimes. Does not our life consist of thefour elements?Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consistsof eating and drinking.Thou'rt a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.Marian, I say! a stoup of wine!Here comes the fool, i' faith.How now, my hearts! did you never see the pictureof 'we three'?Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. Ihad rather than forty shillings I had such a leg,and so sweet a breath to sing, as the fool has. Insooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling lastnight, when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus, of theVapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus: 'twasvery good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thyleman: hadst it?I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's noseis no whipstock: my lady has a white hand, and theMyrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.Excellent! why, this is the best fooling, when allis done. Now, a song.Come on; there is sixpence for you: let's have a song.There's a testril of me too: if one knight give a--Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?A love-song, a love-song.Ay, ay: I care not for good life.[Sings]O mistress mine, where are you roaming?O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,That can sing both high and low:Trip no further, pretty sweeting;Journeys end in lovers meeting,Every wise man's son doth know.Excellent good, i' faith.Good, good.[Sings]What is love? 'tis not hereafter;Present mirth hath present laughter;What's to come is still unsure:In delay there lies no plenty;Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty,Youth's a stuff will not endure.A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.A contagious breath.Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.But shall we make the welkin dance indeed? shall werouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw threesouls out of one weaver? shall we do that?An you love me, let's do't: I am dog at a catch.By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.Most certain. Let our catch be, 'Thou knave.''Hold thy peace, thou knave,' knight? I shall beconstrained in't to call thee knave, knight.'Tis not the first time I have constrained one tocall me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'I shall never begin if I hold my peace.Good, i' faith. Come, begin.What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my ladyhave not called up her steward Malvolio and bid himturn you out of doors, never trust me.My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio'sa Peg-a-Ramsey, and 'Three merry men be we.' Am notI consanguineous? am I not of her blood?Tillyvally. Lady!'There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady!'Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.Ay, he does well enough if he be disposed, and so doI too: he does it with a better grace, but I do itmore natural.[Sings]  'O, the twelfth day of December,'--For the love o' God, peace!My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have yeno wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble liketinkers at this time of night? Do ye make analehouse of my lady's house, that ye squeak out yourcoziers' catches without any mitigation or remorseof voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nortime in you?We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade metell you, that, though she harbours you as herkinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders. Ifyou can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, youare welcome to the house; if not, an it would pleaseyou to take leave of her, she is very willing to bidyou farewell.'Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.'Nay, good Sir Toby.'His eyes do show his days are almost done.'Is't even so?'But I will never die.'Sir Toby, there you lie.This is much credit to you.'Shall I bid him go?''What an if you do?''Shall I bid him go, and spare not?''O no, no, no, no, you dare not.'Out o' tune, sir: ye lie. Art any more than asteward? Dost thou think, because thou artvirtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' themouth too.Thou'rt i' the right. Go, sir, rub your chain withcrumbs. A stoup of wine, Maria!Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favour at anything more than contempt, you would not give meansfor this uncivil rule: she shall know of it, by this hand.Go shake your ears.'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man'sa-hungry, to challenge him the field, and then tobreak promise with him and make a fool of him.Do't, knight: I'll write thee a challenge: or I'lldeliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight: since theyouth of the count's was today with thy lady, she ismuch out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let mealone with him: if I do not gull him into anayword, and make him a common recreation, do notthink I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed:I know I can do it.Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of puritan.O, if I thought that I'ld beat him like a dog!What, for being a puritan? thy exquisite reason,dear knight?I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reasongood enough.The devil a puritan that he is, or any thingconstantly, but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass,that cons state without book and utters it by greatswarths: the best persuaded of himself, socrammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it ishis grounds of faith that all that look on him lovehim; and on that vice in him will my revenge findnotable cause to work.What wilt thou do?I will drop in his way some obscure epistles oflove; wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shapeof his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressureof his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall findhimself most feelingly personated. I can write verylike my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter wecan hardly make distinction of our hands.Excellent! I smell a device.I have't in my nose too.He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop,that they come from my niece, and that she's inlove with him.My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.And your horse now would make him an ass.Ass, I doubt not.O, 'twill be admirable!Sport royal, I warrant you: I know my physic willwork with him. I will plant you two, and let thefool make a third, where he shall find the letter:observe his construction of it. For this night, tobed, and dream on the event. Farewell.Good night, Penthesilea.Before me, she's a good wench.She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:what o' that?I was adored once too.Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send formore money.If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.Send for money, knight: if thou hast her not i'the end, call me cut.If I do not, never trust me, take it how you will.Come, come, I'll go burn some sack; 'tis too lateto go to bed now: come, knight; come, knight.