Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.Nay, I'll come: if I lose a scruple of this sport,let me be boiled to death with melancholy.Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardlyrascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?I would exult, man: you know, he brought me out o'favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we willfool him black and blue: shall we not, Sir Andrew?An we do not, it is pity of our lives.Here comes the little villain.How now, my metal of India!Get ye all three into the box-tree: Malvolio'scoming down this walk: he has been yonder i' thesun practising behavior to his own shadow this halfhour: observe him, for the love of mockery; for Iknow this letter will make a contemplative idiot ofhim. Close, in the name of jesting! Lie thou there,for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once toldme she did affect me: and I have heard herself comethus near, that, should she fancy, it should be oneof my complexion. Besides, she uses me with a moreexalted respect than any one else that follows her.What should I think on't?Here's an overweening rogue!O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cockof him: how he jets under his advanced plumes!'Slight, I could so beat the rogue!Peace, I say.To be Count Malvolio!Ah, rogue!Pistol him, pistol him.Peace, peace!There is example for't; the lady of the Strachymarried the yeoman of the wardrobe.Fie on him, Jezebel!O, peace! now he's deeply in: look howimagination blows him.Having been three months married to her, sitting inmy state,--O, for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!Calling my officers about me, in my branched velvetgown; having come from a day-bed, where I have leftOlivia sleeping,--Fire and brimstone!O, peace, peace!And then to have the humour of state; and after ademure travel of regard, telling them I know myplace as I would they should do theirs, to for mykinsman Toby,--Bolts and shackles!O peace, peace, peace! now, now.Seven of my people, with an obedient start, makeout for him: I frown the while; and perchance windup watch, or play with my--some rich jewel. Tobyapproaches; courtesies there to me,--Shall this fellow live?Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiarsmile with an austere regard of control,--And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?Saying, 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me onyour niece give me this prerogative of speech,'--What, what?'You must amend your drunkenness.'Out, scab!Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time witha foolish knight,'--That's me, I warrant you.'One Sir Andrew,'--I knew 'twas I; for many do call me fool.What employment have we here?Now is the woodcock near the gin.O, peace! and the spirit of humour intimate readingaloud to him!By my life, this is my lady's hand these be hervery C's, her U's and her T's and thus makes she hergreat P's. It is, in contempt of question, her hand.Her C's, her U's and her T's: why that?[Reads]  'To the unknown beloved, this, and my goodwishes:'--her very phrases! By your leave, wax.Soft! and the impressure her Lucrece, with which sheuses to seal: 'tis my lady. To whom should this be?This wins him, liver and all.[Reads]Jove knows I love: But who?Lips, do not move;No man must know.'No man must know.' What follows? the numbersaltered! 'No man must know:' if this should bethee, Malvolio?Marry, hang thee, brock![Reads]I may command where I adore;But silence, like a Lucrece knife,With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore:M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.A fustian riddle!Excellent wench, say I.'M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.' Nay, but first, letme see, let me see, let me see.What dish o' poison has she dressed him!And with what wing the staniel cheques at it!'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may commandme: I serve her; she is my lady. Why, this isevident to any formal capacity; there is noobstruction in this: and the end,--what shouldthat alphabetical position portend? If I could makethat resemble something in me,--Softly! M, O, A,I,--O, ay, make up that: he is now at a cold scent.Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be asrank as a fox.M,--Malvolio; M,--why, that begins my name.Did not I say he would work it out? the cur isexcellent at faults.M,--but then there is no consonancy in the sequel;that suffers under probation A should follow but O does.And O shall end, I hope.Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry O!And then I comes behind.Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might seemore detraction at your heels than fortunes beforeyou.M, O, A, I; this simulation is not as the former: andyet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, forevery one of these letters are in my name. Soft!here follows prose.'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars Iam above thee; but be not afraid of greatness: someare born great, some achieve greatness, and somehave greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy Fates opentheir hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,cast thy humble slough and appear fresh. Beopposite with a kinsman, surly with servants; letthy tongue tang arguments of state; put thyself intothe trick of singularity: she thus advises theethat sighs for thee. Remember who commended thyyellow stockings, and wished to see thee evercross-gartered: I say, remember. Go to, thou artmade, if thou desirest to be so; if not, let me seethee a steward still, the fellow of servants, andnot worthy to touch Fortune's fingers. Farewell.She that would alter services with thee,THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'Daylight and champaign discovers not more: this isopen. I will be proud, I will read politic authors,I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off grossacquaintance, I will be point-devise the very man.I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jademe; for every reason excites to this, that my ladyloves me. She did commend my yellow stockings oflate, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered;and in this she manifests herself to my love, andwith a kind of injunction drives me to these habitsof her liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I willbe strange, stout, in yellow stockings, andcross-gartered, even with the swiftness of puttingon. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet apostscript.'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thouentertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling;thy smiles become thee well; therefore in mypresence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'Jove, I thank thee: I will smile; I will doeverything that thou wilt have me.I will not give my part of this sport for a pensionof thousands to be paid from the Sophy.I could marry this wench for this device.So could I too.And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.Nor I neither.Here comes my noble gull-catcher.Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?Or o' mine either?Shall I play my freedom at traytrip, and become thybond-slave?I' faith, or I either?Why, thou hast put him in such a dream, that whenthe image of it leaves him he must run mad.Nay, but say true; does it work upon him?Like aqua-vitae with a midwife.If you will then see the fruits of the sport, markhis first approach before my lady: he will come toher in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour sheabhors, and cross-gartered, a fashion she detests;and he will smile upon her, which will now be sounsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to amelancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn himinto a notable contempt. If you will see it, followme.To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!I'll make one too.