Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I willnot open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter inway of thy excuse: my lady will hang thee for thy absence.Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in thisworld needs to fear no colours.Make that good.He shall see none to fear.A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where thatsaying was born, of 'I fear no colours.'Where, good Mistress Mary?In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and thosethat are fools, let them use their talents.Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent; or,to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and,for turning away, let summer bear it out.You are resolute, then?Not so, neither; but I am resolved on two points.That if one break, the other will hold; or, if bothbreak, your gaskins fall.Apt, in good faith; very apt. Well, go thy way; ifSir Toby would leave drinking, thou wert as witty apiece of Eve's flesh as any in Illyria.Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes mylady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling!Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oftprove fools; and I, that am sure I lack thee, maypass for a wise man: for what says Quinapalus?'Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.'God bless thee, lady!Take the fool away.Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.Go to, you're a dry fool; I'll no more of you:besides, you grow dishonest.Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counselwill amend: for give the dry fool drink, then isthe fool not dry: bid the dishonest man mendhimself; if he mend, he is no longer dishonest; ifhe cannot, let the botcher mend him. Any thingthat's mended is but patched: virtue thattransgresses is but patched with sin; and sin thatamends is but patched with virtue. If that thissimple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,what remedy? As there is no true cuckold butcalamity, so beauty's a flower. The lady bade takeaway the fool; therefore, I say again, take her away.Sir, I bade them take away you.Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, cucullus nonfacit monachum; that's as much to say as I wear notmotley in my brain. Good madonna, give me leave toprove you a fool.Can you do it?Dexterously, good madonna.Make your proof.I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouseof virtue, answer me.Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your proof.Good madonna, why mournest thou?Good fool, for my brother's death.I think his soul is in hell, madonna.I know his soul is in heaven, fool.The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother'ssoul being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him:infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make thebetter fool.God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for thebetter increasing your folly! Sir Toby will besworn that I am no fox; but he will not pass hisword for two pence that you are no fool.How say you to that, Malvolio?I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such abarren rascal: I saw him put down the other daywith an ordinary fool that has no more brainthan a stone. Look you now, he's out of his guardalready; unless you laugh and minister occasion tohim, he is gagged. I protest, I take these wise men,that crow so at these set kind of fools, no betterthan the fools' zanies.Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and tastewith a distempered appetite. To be generous,guiltless and of free disposition, is to take thosethings for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets:there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he donothing but rail; nor no railing in a known discreetman, though he do nothing but reprove.Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thouspeakest well of fools!Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman muchdesires to speak with you.From the Count Orsino, is it?I know not, madam: 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.Who of my people hold him in delay?Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing butmadman: fie on him!Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from the count, Iam sick, or not at home; what you will, to dismiss it.Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old, andpeople dislike it.Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldestson should be a fool; whose skull Jove cram withbrains! for,--here he comes,--one of thy kin has amost weak pia mater.By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?A gentleman.A gentleman! what gentleman?'Tis a gentle man here--a plague o' thesepickle-herring! How now, sot!Good Sir Toby!Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.Ay, marry, what is he?Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not: giveme faith, say I. Well, it's all one.What's a drunken man like, fool?Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: onedraught above heat makes him a fool; the second madshim; and a third drowns him.Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' mycoz; for he's in the third degree of drink, he'sdrowned: go, look after him.He is but mad yet, madonna; and the fool shall lookto the madman.Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak withyou. I told him you were sick; he takes on him tounderstand so much, and therefore comes to speakwith you. I told him you were asleep; he seems tohave a foreknowledge of that too, and thereforecomes to speak with you. What is to be said to him,lady? he's fortified against any denial.Tell him he shall not speak with me.Has been told so; and he says, he'll stand at yourdoor like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter toa bench, but he'll speak with you.What kind o' man is he?Why, of mankind.What manner of man?Of very ill manner; he'll speak with you, will you or no.Of what personage and years is he?Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough fora boy; as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or acooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with himin standing water, between boy and man. He is verywell-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly; onewould think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.Gentlewoman, my lady calls.Give me my veil: come, throw it o'er my face.We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.The honourable lady of the house, which is she?Speak to me; I shall answer for her.Your will?Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty,--Ipray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house,for I never saw her: I would be loath to cast awaymy speech, for besides that it is excellently wellpenned, I have taken great pains to con it. Goodbeauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am verycomptible, even to the least sinister usage.Whence came you, sir?I can say little more than I have studied, and thatquestion's out of my part. Good gentle one, give memodest assurance if you be the lady of the house,that I may proceed in my speech.Are you a comedian?No, my profound heart: and yet, by the very fangsof malice I swear, I am not that I play. Are youthe lady of the house?If I do not usurp myself, I am.Most certain, if you are she, you do usurpyourself; for what is yours to bestow is not yoursto reserve. But this is from my commission: I willon with my speech in your praise, and then show youthe heart of my message.Come to what is important in't: I forgive you the praise.Alas, I took great pains to study it, and 'tis poetical.It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you,keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates,and allowed your approach rather to wonder at youthan to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone; ifyou have reason, be brief: 'tis not that time ofmoon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.Will you hoist sail, sir? here lies your way.No, good swabber; I am to hull here a littlelonger. Some mollification for your giant, sweetlady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, whenthe courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture ofwar, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in myhand; my words are as fun of peace as matter.Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?The rudeness that hath appeared in me have Ilearned from my entertainment. What I am, and what Iwould, are as secret as maidenhead; to your ears,divinity, to any other's, profanation.Give us the place alone: we will hear this divinity.Now, sir, what is your text?Most sweet lady,--A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.Where lies your text?In Orsino's bosom.In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?Good madam, let me see your face.Have you any commission from your lord to negotiatewith my face? You are now out of your text: butwe will draw the curtain and show you the picture.Look you, sir, such a one I was this present: is'tnot well done?Excellently done, if God did all.'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and whiteNature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on:Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,If you will lead these graces to the graveAnd leave the world no copy.O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will giveout divers schedules of my beauty: it shall beinventoried, and every particle and utensillabelled to my will: as, item, two lips,indifferent red; item, two grey eyes, with lids tothem; item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Wereyou sent hither to praise me?I see you what you are, you are too proud;But, if you were the devil, you are fair.My lord and master loves you: O, such loveCould be but recompensed, though you were crown'dThe nonpareil of beauty!How does he love me?With adorations, fertile tears,With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him:Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;In voices well divulged, free, learn'd and valiant;And in dimension and the shape of natureA gracious person: but yet I cannot love him;He might have took his answer long ago.If I did love you in my master's flame,With such a suffering, such a deadly life,In your denial I would find no sense;I would not understand it.Why, what would you?Make me a willow cabin at your gate,And call upon my soul within the house;Write loyal cantons of contemned loveAnd sing them loud even in the dead of night;Halloo your name to the reverberate hillsAnd make the babbling gossip of the airCry out 'Olivia!' O, You should not restBetween the elements of air and earth,But you should pity me!You might do much.What is your parentage?Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:I am a gentleman.Get you to your lord;I cannot love him: let him send no more;Unless, perchance, you come to me again,To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse:My master, not myself, lacks recompense.Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;And let your fervor, like my master's, bePlaced in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.'What is your parentage?''Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art;Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:soft, soft!Unless the master were the man. How now!Even so quickly may one catch the plague?Methinks I feel this youth's perfectionsWith an invisible and subtle stealthTo creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.What ho, Malvolio!Here, madam, at your service.Run after that same peevish messenger,The county's man: he left this ring behind him,Would I or not: tell him I'll none of it.Desire him not to flatter with his lord,Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him:If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,I'll give him reasons for't: hie thee, Malvolio.Madam, I will.I do I know not what, and fear to findMine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;What is decreed must be, and be this so.