No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to thecount's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me;I saw't i' the orchard.Did she see thee the while, old boy? tell me that.As plain as I see you now.This was a great argument of love in her toward you.'Slight, will you make an ass o' me?I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths ofjudgment and reason.And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noahwas a sailor.She did show favour to the youth in your sight onlyto exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, toput fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.You should then have accosted her; and with someexcellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you shouldhave banged the youth into dumbness. This waslooked for at your hand, and this was balked: thedouble gilt of this opportunity you let time washoff, and you are now sailed into the north of mylady's opinion; where you will hang like an icicleon a Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it bysome laudable attempt either of valour or policy.An't be any way, it must be with valour; for policyI hate: I had as lief be a Brownist as apolitician.Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis ofvalour. Challenge me the count's youth to fightwith him; hurt him in eleven places: my niece shalltake note of it; and assure thyself, there is nolove-broker in the world can more prevail in man'scommendation with woman than report of valour.There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief;it is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and funof invention: taunt him with the licence of ink:if thou thou'st him some thrice, it shall not beamiss; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet ofpaper, although the sheet were big enough for thebed of Ware in England, set 'em down: go, about it.Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thouwrite with a goose-pen, no matter: about it.Where shall I find you?We'll call thee at the cubiculo: go.This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousandstrong, or so.We shall have a rare letter from him: but you'llnot deliver't?Never trust me, then; and by all means stir on theyouth to an answer. I think oxen and wainropescannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he wereopened, and you find so much blood in his liver aswill clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the rest ofthe anatomy.And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage nogreat presage of cruelty.Look, where the youngest wren of nine comes.If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourselfinto stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio isturned heathen, a very renegado; for there is noChristian, that means to be saved by believingrightly, can ever believe such impossible passagesof grossness. He's in yellow stockings.And cross-gartered?Most villanously; like a pedant that keeps a schooli' the church. I have dogged him, like hismurderer. He does obey every point of the letterthat I dropped to betray him: he does smile hisface into more lines than is in the new map with theaugmentation of the Indies: you have not seen sucha thing as 'tis. I can hardly forbear hurling thingsat him. I know my lady will strike him: if she do,he'll smile and take't for a great favour.Come, bring us, bring us where he is.