More rushes, more rushes.The trumpets have sounded twice.'Twill be two o'clock ere they come from thecoronation: dispatch, dispatch.Stand here by me, Master Robert Shallow; I willmake the king do you grace: I will leer upon him asa' comes by; and do but mark the countenance that hewill give me.God bless thy lungs, good knight.Come here, Pistol; stand behind me. O, if I had hadtime to have made new liveries, I would havebestowed the thousand pound I borrowed of you. But'tis no matter; this poor show doth better: thisdoth infer the zeal I had to see him.It doth so.It shows my earnestness of affection,--It doth so.My devotion,--It doth, it doth, it doth.As it were, to ride day and night; and not todeliberate, not to remember, not to have patienceto shift me,--It is best, certain.But to stand stained with travel, and sweating withdesire to see him; thinking of nothing else,putting all affairs else in oblivion, as if therewere nothing else to be done but to see him.'Tis 'semper idem,' for 'obsque hoc nihil est:''tis all in every part.'Tis so, indeed.My knight, I will inflame thy noble liver,And make thee rage.Thy Doll, and Helen of thy noble thoughts,Is in base durance and contagious prison;Haled thitherBy most mechanical and dirty hand:Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fellAlecto's snake,For Doll is in. Pistol speaks nought but truth.I will deliver her.There roar'd the sea, and trumpet-clangor sounds.God save thy grace, King Hal! my royal Hal!The heavens thee guard and keep, most royal imp of fame!God save thee, my sweet boy!My lord chief-justice, speak to that vain man.Lord Chief-Justice	Have you your wits? know you what 'tis to speak?My king! my Jove! I speak to thee, my heart!I know thee not, old man: fall to thy prayers;How ill white hairs become a fool and jester!I have long dream'd of such a kind of man,So surfeit-swell'd, so old and so profane;But, being awaked, I do despise my dream.Make less thy body hence, and more thy grace;Leave gormandizing; know the grave doth gapeFor thee thrice wider than for other men.Reply not to me with a fool-born jest:Presume not that I am the thing I was;For God doth know, so shall the world perceive,That I have turn'd away my former self;So will I those that kept me company.When thou dost hear I am as I have been,Approach me, and thou shalt be as thou wast,The tutor and the feeder of my riots:Till then, I banish thee, on pain of death,As I have done the rest of my misleaders,Not to come near our person by ten mile.For competence of life I will allow you,That lack of means enforce you not to evil:And, as we hear you do reform yourselves,We will, according to your strengths and qualities,Give you advancement. Be it your charge, my lord,To see perform'd the tenor of our word. Set on.Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand pound.Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech you to let mehave home with me.That can hardly be, Master Shallow. Do not yougrieve at this; I shall be sent for in private tohim: look you, he must seem thus to the world:fear not your advancements; I will be the man yetthat shall make you great.I cannot well perceive how, unless you should giveme your doublet and stuff me out with straw. Ibeseech you, good Sir John, let me have five hundredof my thousand.Sir, I will be as good as my word: this that youheard was but a colour.A colour that I fear you will die in, Sir John.Fear no colours: go  with me to dinner: come,Lieutenant Pistol; come, Bardolph: I shall be sentfor soon at night.Lord Chief-Justice	Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet:Take all his company along with him.My lord, my lord,--Lord Chief-Justice	I cannot now speak: I will hear you soon.Take them away.Si fortune me tormenta, spero contenta.I like this fair proceeding of the king's:He hath intent his wonted followersShall all be very well provided for;But all are banish'd till their conversationsAppear more wise and modest to the world.Lord Chief-Justice	And so they are.The king hath call'd his parliament, my lord.Lord Chief-Justice	He hath.I will lay odds that, ere this year expire,We bear our civil swords and native fireAs far as France: I beard a bird so sing,Whose music, to my thinking, pleased the king.Come, will you hence?EPILOGUEFirst my fear; then my courtesy; last my speech.My fear is, your displeasure; my courtesy, my duty;and my speech, to beg your pardons. If you lookfor a good speech now, you undo me: for what I haveto say is of mine own making; and what indeed Ishould say will, I doubt, prove mine own marring.But to the purpose, and so to the venture. Be itknown to you, as it is very well, I was lately herein the end of a displeasing play, to pray yourpatience for it and to promise you a better. Imeant indeed to pay you with this; which, if like anill venture it come unluckily home, I break, andyou, my gentle creditors, lose. Here I promised youI would be and here I commit my body to yourmercies: bate me some and I will pay you some and,as most debtors do, promise you infinitely.If my tongue cannot entreat you to acquit me, willyou command me to use my legs? and yet that were butlight payment, to dance out of your debt. But agood conscience will make any possible satisfaction,and so would I. All the gentlewomen here haveforgiven me: if the gentlemen will not, then thegentlemen do not agree with the gentlewomen, whichwas never seen before in such an assembly.One word more, I beseech you. If you be not toomuch cloyed with fat meat, our humble author willcontinue the story, with Sir John in it, and makeyou merry with fair Katharine of France: where, forany thing I know, Falstaff shall die of a sweat,unless already a' be killed with your hardopinions; for Oldcastle died a martyr, and this isnot the man. My tongue is weary; when my legs aretoo, I will bid you good night: and so kneel downbefore you; but, indeed, to pray for the queen.