I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.I thank you, sir.Here's my lord.[Aside]  One of Lord Timon's men? a gift, Iwarrant. Why, this hits right; I dreamt of a silverbasin and ewer to-night. Flaminius, honestFlaminius; you are very respectively welcome, sir.Fill me some wine.And how does that honourable, complete, free-heartedgentleman of Athens, thy very bountiful good lordand master?His health is well sir.I am right glad that his health is well, sir: andwhat hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?'Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir; which, in mylord's behalf, I come to entreat your honour tosupply; who, having great and instant occasion touse fifty talents, hath sent to your lordship tofurnish him, nothing doubting your presentassistance therein.La, la, la, la! 'nothing doubting,' says he? Alas,good lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would notkeep so good a house. Many a time and often I ha'dined with him, and told him on't, and come again tosupper to him, of purpose to have him spend less,and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warningby my coming. Every man has his fault, and honestyis his: I ha' told him on't, but I could ne'er gethim from't.Please your lordship, here is the wine.Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.Your lordship speaks your pleasure.I have observed thee always for a towardly promptspirit--give thee thy due--and one that knows whatbelongs to reason; and canst use the time well, ifthe time use thee well: good parts in thee.Get you gone, sirrah.Draw nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's abountiful gentleman: but thou art wise; and thouknowest well enough, although thou comest to me,that this is no time to lend money, especially uponbare friendship, without security. Here's threesolidares for thee: good boy, wink at me, and saythou sawest me not. Fare thee well.Is't possible the world should so much differ,And we alive that lived? Fly, damned baseness,To him that worships thee!Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.May these add to the number that may scald thee!Let moulten coin be thy damnation,Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!Has friendship such a faint and milky heart,It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,I feel master's passion! this slave,Unto his honour, has my lord's meat in him:Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment,When he is turn'd to poison?O, may diseases only work upon't!And, when he's sick to death, let not that part of natureWhich my lord paid for, be of any powerTo expel sickness, but prolong his hour!