Who, the Lord Timon? he is my very good friend, andan honourable gentleman.We know him for no less, though we are but strangersto him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, andwhich I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon'shappy hours are done and past, and his estateshrinks from him.Fie, no, do not believe it; he cannot want for money.But believe you this, my lord, that, not long ago,one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrowso many talents, nay, urged extremely for't andshowed what necessity belonged to't, and yet was denied.How!I tell you, denied, my lord.What a strange case was that! now, before the gods,I am ashamed on't. Denied that honourable man!there was very little honour showed in't. For my ownpart, I must needs confess, I have received somesmall kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewelsand such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his;yet, had he mistook him and sent to me, I shouldne'er have denied his occasion so many talents.See, by good hap, yonder's my lord;I have sweat to see his honour. My honoured lord,--Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well:commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my veryexquisite friend.May it please your honour, my lord hath sent--Ha! what has he sent? I am so much endeared tothat lord; he's ever sending: how shall I thankhim, thinkest thou? And what has he sent now?Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord;requesting your lordship to supply his instant usewith so many talents.I know his lordship is but merry with me;He cannot want fifty five hundred talents.But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.If his occasion were not virtuous,I should not urge it half so faithfully.Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?Upon my soul,'tis true, sir.What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myselfagainst such a good time, when I might ha' shownmyself honourable! how unluckily it happened, that Ishould purchase the day before for a little part,and undo a great deal of honoured! Servilius, now,before the gods, I am not able to do,--the morebeast, I say:--I was sending to use Lord Timonmyself, these gentlemen can witness! but I wouldnot, for the wealth of Athens, I had done't now.Commend me bountifully to his good lordship; and Ihope his honour will conceive the fairest of me,because I have no power to be kind: and tell himthis from me, I count it one of my greatestafflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such anhonourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will youbefriend me so far, as to use mine own words to him?Yes, sir, I shall.I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.True as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;And he that's once denied will hardly speed.Do you observe this, Hostilius?Ay, too well.Why, this is the world's soul; and just of thesame pieceIs every flatterer's spirit. Who can call himHis friend that dips in the same dish? for, inMy knowing, Timon has been this lord's father,And kept his credit with his purse,Supported his estate; nay, Timon's moneyHas paid his men their wages: he ne'er drinks,But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;And yet--O, see the monstrousness of manWhen he looks out in an ungrateful shape!--He does deny him, in respect of his,What charitable men afford to beggars.Religion groans at it.For mine own part,I never tasted Timon in my life,Nor came any of his bounties over me,To mark me for his friend; yet, I protest,For his right noble mind, illustrious virtueAnd honourable carriage,Had his necessity made use of me,I would have put my wealth into donation,And the best half should have return'd to him,So much I love his heart: but, I perceive,Men must learn now with pity to dispense;For policy sits above conscience.