You have seen nothing then?Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.But then I saw no harm, and then I heardEach syllable that breath made up between them.What, did they never whisper?Never, my lord.Nor send you out o' the way?Never.To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?Never, my lord.That's strange.I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,Lay down my soul at stake: if you think other,Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom.If any wretch have put this in your head,Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!For, if she be not honest, chaste, and true,There's no man happy; the purest of their wivesIs foul as slander.Bid her come hither: go.She says enough; yet she's a simple bawdThat cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,A closet lock and key of villanous secretsAnd yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.My lord, what is your will?Pray, chuck, come hither.What is your pleasure?Let me see your eyes;Look in my face.What horrible fancy's this?[To EMILIA]  Some of your function, mistress;Leave procreants alone and shut the door;Cough, or cry 'hem,' if any body come:Your mystery, your mystery: nay, dispatch.Upon my knees, what doth your speech import?I understand a fury in your words.But not the words.Why, what art thou?Your wife, my lord; your trueAnd loyal wife.Come, swear it, damn thyselfLest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselvesShould fear to seize thee: therefore be double damn'd:Swear thou art honest.Heaven doth truly know it.Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?O Desdemona! away! away! away!Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?If haply you my father do suspectAn instrument of this your calling back,Lay not your blame on me: If you have lost him,Why, I have lost him too.Had it pleased heavenTo try me with affliction; had they rain'dAll kinds of sores and shames on my bare head.Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,I should have found in some place of my soulA drop of patience: but, alas, to make meA fixed figure for the time of scornTo point his slow unmoving finger at!Yet could I bear that too; well, very well:But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,Where either I must live, or bear no life;The fountain from the which my current runs,Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!Or keep it as a cistern for foul toadsTo knot and gender in! Turn thy complexion there,Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,--Ay, there, look grim as hell!I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.O, ay; as summer flies are in the shambles,That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweetThat the sense aches at thee, would thou hadstne'er been born!Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?Was this fair paper, this most goodly book,Made to write 'whore' upon? What committed!Committed! O thou public commoner!I should make very forges of my cheeks,That would to cinders burn up modesty,Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks,The bawdy wind that kisses all it meetsIs hush'd within the hollow mine of earth,And will not hear it. What committed!Impudent strumpet!By heaven, you do me wrong.Are you not a strumpet?No, as I am a Christian:If to preserve this vessel for my lordFrom any other foul unlawful touchBe not to be a strumpet, I am none.What, not a whore?No, as I shall be saved.Is't possible?O, heaven forgive us!I cry you mercy, then:I took you for that cunning whore of VeniceThat married with Othello.You, mistress,That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,And keep the gate of hell!You, you, ay, you!We have done our course; there's money for your pains:I pray you, turn the key and keep our counsel.Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?How do you, madam? how do you, my good lady?'Faith, half asleep.Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?With who?Why, with my lord, madam.Who is thy lord?He that is yours, sweet lady.I have none: do not talk to me, Emilia;I cannot weep; nor answer have I none,But what should go by water. Prithee, tonightLay on my bed my wedding sheets: remember;And call thy husband hither.Here's a change indeed!'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.How have I been behaved, that he might stickThe small'st opinion on my least misuse?What is your pleasure, madam?How is't with you?I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babesDo it with gentle means and easy tasks:He might have chid me so; for, in good faith,I am a child to chiding.What's the matter, lady?Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her.Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,As true hearts cannot bear.Am I that name, Iago?What name, fair lady?Such as she says my lord did say I was.He call'd her whore: a beggar in his drinkCould not have laid such terms upon his callat.Why did he so?I do not know; I am sure I am none such.Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!Hath she forsook so many noble matches,Her father and her country and her friends,To be call'd whore? would it not make one weep?It is my wretched fortune.Beshrew him for't!How comes this trick upon him?Nay, heaven doth know.I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,Some busy and insinuating rogue,Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.Fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.If any such there be, heaven pardon him!A halter pardon him! and hell gnaw his bones!Why should he call her whore? who keeps her company?What place? what time? what form? what likelihood?The Moor's abused by some most villanous knave,Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,And put in every honest hand a whipTo lash the rascals naked through the worldEven from the east to the west!Speak within door.O, fie upon them! Some such squire he wasThat turn'd your wit the seamy side without,And made you to suspect me with the Moor.You are a fool; go to.O good Iago,What shall I do to win my lord again?Good friend, go to him; for, by this light of heaven,I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love,Either in discourse of thought or actual deed,Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,Delighted them in any other form;Or that I do not yet, and ever did.And ever will--though he do shake me offTo beggarly divorcement--love him dearly,Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much;And his unkindness may defeat my life,But never taint my love. I cannot say 'whore:'It does abhor me now I speak the word;To do the act that might the addition earnNot the world's mass of vanity could make me.I pray you, be content; 'tis but his humour:The business of the state does him offence,And he does chide with you.If 'twere no other--'Tis but so, I warrant.Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!The messengers of Venice stay the meat;Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.How now, Roderigo!I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.What in the contrary?Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago;and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from meall conveniency than suppliest me with the leastadvantage of hope. I will indeed no longer endureit, nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace whatalready I have foolishly suffered.Will you hear me, Roderigo?'Faith, I have heard too much, for your words andperformances are no kin together.You charge me most unjustly.With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out ofmy means. The jewels you have had from me todeliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted avotarist: you have told me she hath received themand returned me expectations and comforts of suddenrespect and acquaintance, but I find none.Well; go to; very well.Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man; nor 'tisnot very well: nay, I think it is scurvy, and beginto find myself fobbed in it.Very well.I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myselfknown to Desdemona: if she will return me myjewels, I will give over my suit and repent myunlawful solicitation; if not, assure yourself Iwill seek satisfaction of you.You have said now.Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing.Why, now I see there's mettle in thee, and even fromthis instant to build on thee a better opinion thanever before. Give me thy hand, Roderigo: thou hasttaken against me a most just exception; but yet, Iprotest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.It hath not appeared.I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and yoursuspicion is not without wit and judgment. But,Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which Ihave greater reason to believe now than ever, I meanpurpose, courage and valour, this night show it: ifthou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona,take me from this world with treachery and deviseengines for my life.Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?Sir, there is especial commission come from Veniceto depute Cassio in Othello's place.Is that true? why, then Othello and Desdemonareturn again to Venice.O, no; he goes into Mauritania and takes away withhim the fair Desdemona, unless his abode belingered here by some accident: wherein none can beso determinate as the removing of Cassio.How do you mean, removing of him?Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place;knocking out his brains.And that you would have me to do?Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.He sups to-night with a harlotry, and thither will Igo to him: he knows not yet of his horrorablefortune. If you will watch his going thence, whichI will fashion to fall out between twelve and one,you may take him at your pleasure: I will be nearto second your attempt, and he shall fall betweenus. Come, stand not amazed at it, but go along withme; I will show you such a necessity in his deaththat you shall think yourself bound to put it onhim. It is now high suppertime, and the night growsto waste: about it.I will hear further reason for this.And you shall be satisfied.