DONBoy, what sign is it when a man of great spiritgrows melancholy?A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.DONWhy, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.No, no; O Lord, sir, no.DONHow canst thou part sadness and melancholy, mytender juvenal?By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior.DONWhy tough senior? why tough senior?Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal?DONI spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epithetonappertaining to thy young days, which we maynominate tender.And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to yourold time, which we may name tough.DON ADRIANO DEPretty and apt.How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? orI apt, and my saying pretty?DONThou pretty, because little.Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?DONAnd therefore apt, because quick.Speak you this in my praise, master?DONIn thy condign praise.I will praise an eel with the same praise.DONWhat, that an eel is ingenious?That an eel is quick.DONI do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood.I am answered, sir.DONI love not to be crossed.[Aside]  He speaks the mere contrary; crosses love not him.DONI have promised to study three years with the duke.You may do it in an hour, sir.DONImpossible.How many is one thrice told?DONI am ill at reckoning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.DONI confess both: they are both the varnish of acomplete man.Then, I am sure, you know how much the gross sum ofdeuce-ace amounts to.DONIt doth amount to one more than two.Which the base vulgar do call three.DONTrue.Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now hereis three studied, ere ye'll thrice wink: and howeasy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' andstudy three years in two words, the dancing horsewill tell you.DONA most fine figure!To prove you a cipher.DONI will hereupon confess I am in love: and as it isbase for a soldier to love, so am I in love with abase wench. If drawing my sword against the humourof affection would deliver me from the reprobatethought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, andransom him to any French courtier for a new-devisedcourtesy. I think scorn to sigh: methinks I shouldoutswear Cupid. Comfort, me, boy: what great menhave been in love?Hercules, master.DONMost sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, namemore; and, sweet my child, let them be men of goodrepute and carriage.Samson, master: he was a man of good carriage, greatcarriage, for he carried the town-gates on his backlike a porter: and he was in love.DONO well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I doexcel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me incarrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson'slove, my dear Moth?A woman, master.DONOf what complexion?Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four.DONTell me precisely of what complexion.Of the sea-water green, sir.DONIs that one of the four complexions?As I have read, sir; and the best of them too.DONGreen indeed is the colour of lovers; but to have alove of that colour, methinks Samson had small reasonfor it. He surely affected her for her wit.It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.DONMy love is most immaculate white and red.Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked undersuch colours.DONDefine, define, well-educated infant.My father's wit and my mother's tongue, assist me!DONSweet invocation of a child; most pretty andpathetical!If she be made of white and red,Her faults will ne'er be known,For blushing cheeks by faults are bredAnd fears by pale white shown:Then if she fear, or be to blame,By this you shall not know,For still her cheeks possess the sameWhich native she doth owe.A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason ofwhite and red.DONIs there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar?The world was very guilty of such a ballad somethree ages since: but I think now 'tis not to befound; or, if it were, it would neither serve forthe writing nor the tune.DONI will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I mayexample my digression by some mighty precedent.Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in thepark with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well.[Aside]  To be whipped; and yet a better love thanmy master.DONSing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.DONI say, sing.Forbear till this company be past.Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costardsafe: and you must suffer him to take no delightnor no penance; but a' must fast three days a week.For this damsel, I must keep her at the park: sheis allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well.DONI do betray myself with blushing. Maid!Man?DONI will visit thee at the lodge.That's hereby.DONI know where it is situate.Lord, how wise you are!DONI will tell thee wonders.With that face?DONI love thee.So I heard you say.DONAnd so, farewell.Fair weather after you!Come, Jaquenetta, away!DONVillain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thoube pardoned.Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on afull stomach.DONThou shalt be heavily punished.I am more bound to you than your fellows, for theyare but lightly rewarded.DONTake away this villain; shut him up.Come, you transgressing slave; away!Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose.No, sir; that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison.Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolationthat I have seen, some shall see.What shall some see?Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon.It is not for prisoners to be too silent in theirwords; and therefore I will say nothing: I thankGod I have as little patience as another man; andtherefore I can be quiet.DONI do affect the very ground, which is base, whereher shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, whichis basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, whichis a great argument of falsehood, if I love. Andhow can that be true love which is falselyattempted? Love is a familiar; Love is a devil:there is no evil angel but Love. Yet was Samson sotempted, and he had an excellent strength; yet wasSolomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club;and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.The first and second cause will not serve my turn;the passado he respects not, the duello he regardsnot: his disgrace is to be called boy; but hisglory is to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust rapier!be still, drum! for your manager is in love; yea,he loveth. Assist me, some extemporal god of rhyme,for I am sure I shall turn sonnet. Devise, wit;write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.LOVE'S LABOURS LOST