DONWarble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.Concolinel.DONSweet air! Go, tenderness of years; take this key,give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinatelyhither: I must employ him in a letter to my love.Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?DONHow meanest thou? brawling in French?No, my complete master: but to jig off a tune atthe tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humourit with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note andsing a note, sometime through the throat, as if youswallowed love with singing love, sometime throughthe nose, as if you snuffed up love by smellinglove; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop ofyour eyes; with your arms crossed on your thin-bellydoublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands inyour pocket like a man after the old painting; andkeep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.These are complements, these are humours; thesebetray nice wenches, that would be betrayed withoutthese; and make them men of note--do you noteme?--that most are affected to these.DONHow hast thou purchased this experience?By my penny of observation.DONBut O,--but O,--'The hobby-horse is forgot.'DONCallest thou my love 'hobby-horse'?No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and yourlove perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?DONAlmost I had.Negligent student! learn her by heart.DONBy heart and in heart, boy.And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove.DONWhat wilt thou prove?A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, uponthe instant: by heart you love her, because yourheart cannot come by her; in heart you love her,because your heart is in love with her; and out ofheart you love her, being out of heart that youcannot enjoy her.DONI am all these three.And three times as much more, and yet nothing atall.DONFetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter.A message well sympathized; a horse to be ambassadorfor an ass.DONHa, ha! what sayest thou?Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse,for he is very slow-gaited. But I go.DONThe way is but short: away!As swift as lead, sir.DONThe meaning, pretty ingenious?Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.DONI say lead is slow.You are too swift, sir, to say so:Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?DONSweet smoke of rhetoric!He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he:I shoot thee at the swain.Thump then and I flee.DONA most acute juvenal; voluble and free of grace!By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face:Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.My herald is return'd.A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.DONSome enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy; begin.No enigma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in themail, sir: O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! nol'envoy, no l'envoy; no salve, sir, but a plantain!DONBy virtue, thou enforcest laughter; thy sillythought my spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokesme to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars!Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, andthe word l'envoy for a salve?Do the wise think them other? is not l'envoy a salve?DONNo, page: it is an epilogue or discourse, to make plainSome obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.I will example it:The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,Were still at odds, being but three.There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.DONThe fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,Were still at odds, being but three.Until the goose came out of door,And stay'd the odds by adding four.Now will I begin your moral, and do you follow withmy l'envoy.The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,Were still at odds, being but three.DONUntil the goose came out of door,Staying the odds by adding four.A good l'envoy, ending in the goose: would youdesire more?The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose:Let me see; a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose.DONCome hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.Then call'd you for the l'envoy.True, and I for a plantain: thus came yourargument in;Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;And he ended the market.DONBut tell me; how was there a costard broken in a shin?I will tell you sensibly.Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth: I will speak that l'envoy:I Costard, running out, that was safely within,Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.DONWe will talk no more of this matter.Till there be more matter in the shin.DONSirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee.O, marry me to one Frances: I smell some l'envoy,some goose, in this.DONBy my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured,restrained, captivated, bound.True, true; and now you will be my purgation and let me loose.DONI give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and,in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this:bear this significantto the country maid Jaquenetta:there is remuneration; for the best ward of minehonour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew!Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration!O, that's the Latin word for three farthings: threefarthings--remuneration.--'What's the price of thisinkle?'--'One penny.'--'No, I'll give you aremuneration:' why, it carries it. Remuneration!why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I willnever buy and sell out of this word.O, my good knave Costard! exceedingly well met.Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a manbuy for a remuneration?What is a remuneration?Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.I thank your worship: God be wi' you!Stay, slave; I must employ thee:As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.When would you have it done, sir?This afternoon.Well, I will do it, sir: fare you well.Thou knowest not what it is.I shall know, sir, when I have done it.Why, villain, thou must know first.I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.It must be done this afternoon.Hark, slave, it is but this:The princess comes to hunt here in the park,And in her train there is a gentle lady;When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,And Rosaline they call her: ask for her;And to her white hand see thou do commendThis seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration,a'leven-pence farthing better: most sweet gardon! Iwill do it sir, in print. Gardon! Remuneration!And I, forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip;A very beadle to a humorous sigh;A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;A domineering pedant o'er the boy;Than whom no mortal so magnificent!This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy;This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,Sole imperator and great generalOf trotting 'paritors:--O my little heart:--And I to be a corporal of his field,And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!A woman, that is like a German clock,Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,And never going aright, being a watch,But being watch'd that it may still go right!Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all;And, among three, to love the worst of all;A wightly wanton with a velvet brow,With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes;Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deedThough Argus were her eunuch and her guard:And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!To pray for her! Go to; it is a plagueThat Cupid will impose for my neglectOf his almighty dreadful little might.Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue and groan:Some men must love my lady and some Joan.LOVE'S LABOURS LOST