We will be satisfied; let us be satisfied.Then follow me, and give me audience, friends.Cassius, go you into the other street,And part the numbers.Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;And public reasons shall be renderedOf Caesar's death.I will hear Brutus speak.I will hear Cassius; and compare their reasons,When severally we hear them rendered.The noble Brutus is ascended: silence!Be patient till the last.Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for mycause, and be silent, that you may hear: believe mefor mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, thatyou may believe: censure me in your wisdom, andawake your senses, that you may the better judge.If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend ofCaesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesarwas no less than his. If then that friend demandwhy Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer:--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I lovedRome more. Had you rather Caesar were living anddie all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to liveall free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him;as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he wasvaliant, I honour him: but, as he was ambitious, Islew him. There is tears for his love; joy for hisfortune; honour for his valour; and death for hisambition. Who is here so base that would be abondman? If any, speak; for him have I offended.Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? Ifany, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here sovile that will not love his country? If any, speak;for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.None, Brutus, none.Then none have I offended. I have done no more toCaesar than you shall do to Brutus. The question ofhis death is enrolled in the Capitol; his glory notextenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offencesenforced, for which he suffered death.Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who,though he had no hand in his death, shall receivethe benefit of his dying, a place in thecommonwealth; as which of you shall not? With thisI depart,--that, as I slew my best lover for thegood of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,when it shall please my country to need my death.Live, Brutus! live, live!Bring him with triumph home unto his house.Give him a statue with his ancestors.Let him be Caesar.Caesar's better partsShall be crown'd in Brutus.We'll bring him to his houseWith shouts and clamours.My countrymen,--Peace, silence! Brutus speaks.Peace, ho!Good countrymen, let me depart alone,And, for my sake, stay here with Antony:Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speechTending to Caesar's glories; which Mark Antony,By our permission, is allow'd to make.I do entreat you, not a man depart,Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.Stay, ho! and let us hear Mark Antony.Let him go up into the public chair;We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.What does he say of Brutus?He says, for Brutus' sake,He finds himself beholding to us all.'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.This Caesar was a tyrant.Nay, that's certain:We are blest that Rome is rid of him.Peace! let us hear what Antony can say.You gentle Romans,--Peace, ho! let us hear him.Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.The evil that men do lives after them;The good is oft interred with their bones;So let it be with Caesar. The noble BrutusHath told you Caesar was ambitious:If it were so, it was a grievous fault,And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest--For Brutus is an honourable man;So are they all, all honourable men--Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.He was my friend, faithful and just to me:But Brutus says he was ambitious;And Brutus is an honourable man.He hath brought many captives home to RomeWhose ransoms did the general coffers fill:Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept:Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;And Brutus is an honourable man.You all did see that on the LupercalI thrice presented him a kingly crown,Which he did thrice refuse: was this ambition?Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;And, sure, he is an honourable man.I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,But here I am to speak what I do know.You all did love him once, not without cause:What cause withholds you then, to mourn for him?O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,And I must pause till it come back to me.Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.If thou consider rightly of the matter,Caesar has had great wrong.Has he, masters?I fear there will a worse come in his place.Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.If it be found so, some will dear abide it.Poor soul! his eyes are red as fire with weeping.There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.Now mark him, he begins again to speak.But yesterday the word of Caesar mightHave stood against the world; now lies he there.And none so poor to do him reverence.O masters, if I were disposed to stirYour hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong,Who, you all know, are honourable men:I will not do them wrong; I rather chooseTo wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,Than I will wrong such honourable men.But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;I found it in his closet, 'tis his will:Let but the commons hear this testament--Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read--And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's woundsAnd dip their napkins in his sacred blood,Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,And, dying, mention it within their wills,Bequeathing it as a rich legacyUnto their issue.We'll hear the will: read it, Mark Antony.The will, the will! we will hear Caesar's will.Have patience, gentle friends, I must not read it;It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;And, being men, bearing the will of Caesar,It will inflame you, it will make you mad:'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs;For, if you should, O, what would come of it!Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony;You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.Will you be patient? will you stay awhile?I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it:I fear I wrong the honourable menWhose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.They were traitors: honourable men!The will! the testament!They were villains, murderers: the will! read the will.You will compel me, then, to read the will?Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar,And let me show you him that made the will.Shall I descend? and will you give me leave?Come down.Descend.You shall have leave.A ring; stand round.Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.Room for Antony, most noble Antony.Nay, press not so upon me; stand far off.Stand back; room; bear back.If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.You all do know this mantle: I rememberThe first time ever Caesar put it on;'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,That day he overcame the Nervii:Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:See what a rent the envious Casca made:Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,As rushing out of doors, to be resolvedIf Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel:Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!This was the most unkindest cut of all;For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,Quite vanquish'd him: then burst his mighty heart;And, in his mantle muffling up his face,Even at the base of Pompey's statua,Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.O, now you weep; and, I perceive, you feelThe dint of pity: these are gracious drops.Kind souls, what, weep you when you but beholdOur Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.O piteous spectacle!O noble Caesar!O woful day!O traitors, villains!O most bloody sight!We will be revenged.Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay!Let not a traitor live!Stay, countrymen.Peace there! hear the noble Antony.We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you upTo such a sudden flood of mutiny.They that have done this deed are honourable:What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,That made them do it: they are wise and honourable,And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:I am no orator, as Brutus is;But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,That love my friend; and that they know full wellThat gave me public leave to speak of him:For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,To stir men's blood: I only speak right on;I tell you that which you yourselves do know;Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor poor dumb mouths,And bid them speak for me: but were I Brutus,And Brutus Antony, there were an AntonyWould ruffle up your spirits and put a tongueIn every wound of Caesar that should moveThe stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.We'll mutiny.We'll burn the house of Brutus.Away, then! come, seek the conspirators.Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!Why, friends, you go to do you know not what:Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:You have forgot the will I told you of.Most true. The will! Let's stay and hear the will.Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.To every Roman citizen he gives,To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.O royal Caesar!Hear me with patience.Peace, ho!Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,His private arbours and new-planted orchards,On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,And to your heirs for ever, common pleasures,To walk abroad, and recreate yourselves.Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?Never, never. Come, away, away!We'll burn his body in the holy place,And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.Take up the body.Go fetch fire.Pluck down benches.Pluck down forms, windows, any thing.Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,Take thou what course thou wilt!How now, fellow!Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.Where is he?He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.And thither will I straight to visit him:He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,And in this mood will give us any thing.I heard him say, Brutus and CassiusAre rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.Belike they had some notice of the people,How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.