I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.Thou art like one of those fellows that when heenters the confines of a tavern claps me his swordupon the table and says 'God send me no need ofthee!' and by the operation of the second cup drawsit on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.Am I like such a fellow?Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood asany in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and assoon moody to be moved.And what to?Nay, an there were two such, we should have noneshortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thouwilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having noother reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: whateye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full ofmeat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle asan egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with aman for coughing in the street, because he hathwakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearinghis new doublet before Easter? with another, fortying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thouwilt tutor me from quarrelling!An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any manshould buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.The fee-simple! O simple!By my head, here come the Capulets.By my heel, I care not.Follow me close, for I will speak to them.Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.And but one word with one of us? couple it withsomething; make it a word and a blow.You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an youwill give me occasion.Could you not take some occasion without giving?Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? anthou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing butdiscords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shallmake you dance. 'Zounds, consort!We talk here in the public haunt of men:Either withdraw unto some private place,And reason coldly of your grievances,Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'Romeo, the hate I bear thee can affordNo better term than this,--thou art a villain.Tybalt, the reason that I have to love theeDoth much excuse the appertaining rageTo such a greeting: villain am I none;Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.Boy, this shall not excuse the injuriesThat thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.I do protest, I never injured thee,But love thee better than thou canst devise,Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:And so, good Capulet,--which name I tenderAs dearly as my own,--be satisfied.O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!Alla stoccata carries it away.Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?What wouldst thou have with me?Good king of cats, nothing but one of your ninelives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as youshall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of theeight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcherby the ears? make haste, lest mine be about yourears ere it be out.I am for you.Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.Come, sir, your passado.Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hathForbidden bandying in Verona streets:Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!I am hurt.A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.Is he gone, and hath nothing?What, art thou hurt?Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as achurch-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask forme to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. Iam peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, acat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, arogue, a villain, that fights by the book ofarithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? Iwas hurt under your arm.I thought all for the best.Help me into some house, Benvolio,Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,And soundly too: your houses!This gentleman, the prince's near ally,My very friend, hath got his mortal hurtIn my behalf; my reputation stain'dWith Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hourHath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,Thy beauty hath made me effeminateAnd in my temper soften'd valour's steel!O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.This day's black fate on more days doth depend;This but begins the woe, others must end.Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!Away to heaven, respective lenity,And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soulIs but a little way above our heads,Staying for thine to keep him company:Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,Shalt with him hence.This shall determine that.Romeo, away, be gone!The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!O, I am fortune's fool!Why dost thou stay?Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?There lies that Tybalt.Up, sir, go with me;I charge thee in the princes name, obey.Where are the vile beginners of this fray?O noble prince, I can discover allThe unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spiltO my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.O cousin, cousin!Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethinkHow nice the quarrel was, and urged withalYour high displeasure: all this utteredWith gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,Could not take truce with the unruly spleenOf Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tiltsWith piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beatsCold death aside, and with the other sendsIt back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter thanhis tongue,His agile arm beats down their fatal points,And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose armAn envious thrust from Tybalt hit the lifeOf stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;But by and by comes back to Romeo,Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere ICould draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.He is a kinsman to the Montague;Affection makes him false; he speaks not true:Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,And all those twenty could but kill one life.I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;His fault concludes but what the law should end,The life of Tybalt.And for that offenceImmediately we do exile him hence:I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;But I'll amerce you with so strong a fineThat you shall all repent the loss of mine:I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.Bear hence this body and attend our will:Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.