Is our whole dissembly appeared?O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.Which be the malefactors?Marry, that am I and my partner.Nay, that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine.But which are the offenders that are to beexamined? let them come before master constable.Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is yourname, friend?Borachio.Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, doyou serve God?Yea, sir, we hope.Write down, that they hope they serve God: andwrite God first; for God defend but God should gobefore such villains! Masters, it is proved alreadythat you are little better than false knaves; and itwill go near to be thought so shortly. How answeryou for yourselves?Marry, sir, we say we are none.A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but Iwill go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; aword in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thoughtyou are false knaves.Sir, I say to you we are none.Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in atale. Have you writ down, that they are none?Master constable, you go not the way to examine:you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watchcome forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince'sname, accuse these men.This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince'sbrother, was a villain.Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flatperjury, to call a prince's brother villain.Master constable,--Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,I promise thee.What heard you him say else?Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats ofDon John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.Flat burglary as ever was committed.Yea, by mass, that it is.What else, fellow?And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, todisgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her.O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlastingredemption for this.What else?This is all.And this is more, masters, than you can deny.Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away;Hero was in this manner accused, in this very mannerrefused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died.Master constable, let these men be bound, andbrought to Leonato's: I will go before and showhim their examination.Come, let them be opinioned.Let them be in the hands--Off, coxcomb!God's my life, where's the sexton? let him writedown the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.Thou naughty varlet!Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou notsuspect my years? O that he were here to write medown an ass! But, masters, remember that I am anass; though it be not written down, yet forget notthat I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full ofpiety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness.I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer,and, which is more, a householder, and, which ismore, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is inMessina, and one that knows the law, go to; and arich fellow enough, go to; and a fellow that hathhad losses, and one that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him. Bring him away. O thatI had been writ down an ass!