I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragoncomes this night to Messina.He is very near by this: he was not three leagues offwhen I left him.How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?But few of any sort, and none of name.A victory is twice itself when the achiever bringshome full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hathbestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.Much deserved on his part and equally remembered byDon Pedro: he hath borne himself beyond thepromise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb,the feats of a lion: he hath indeed betterbettered expectation than you must expect of me totell you how.He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very muchglad of it.I have already delivered him letters, and thereappears much joy in him; even so much that joy couldnot show itself modest enough without a badge ofbitterness.Did he break out into tears?In great measure.A kind overflow of kindness: there are no facestruer than those that are so washed. How muchbetter is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from thewars or no?I know none of that name, lady: there was none suchin the army of any sort.What is he that you ask for, niece?My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.O, he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was.He set up his bills here in Messina and challengedCupid at the flight; and my uncle's fool, readingthe challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challengedhim at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath hekilled and eaten in these wars? But how many hathhe killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much;but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:he is a very valiant trencherman; he hath anexcellent stomach.And a good soldier too, lady.And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with allhonourable virtues.It is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man:but for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal.You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is akind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her:they never meet but there's a skirmish of witbetween them.Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our lastconflict four of his five wits went halting off, andnow is the whole man governed with one: so that ifhe have wit enough to keep himself warm, let himbear it for a difference between himself and hishorse; for it is all the wealth that he hath left,to be known a reasonable creature. Who is hiscompanion now? He hath every month a new sworn brother.Is't possible?Very easily possible: he wears his faith but asthe fashion of his hat; it ever changes with thenext block.I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.No; an he were, I would burn my study. But, I prayyou, who is his companion? Is there no youngsquarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil?He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: heis sooner caught than the pestilence, and the takerruns presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! ifhe have caught the Benedick, it will cost him athousand pound ere a' be cured.I will hold friends with you, lady.Do, good friend.You will never run mad, niece.No, not till a hot January.Don Pedro is approached.Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet yourtrouble: the fashion of the world is to avoidcost, and you encounter it.Never came trouble to my house in the likeness ofyour grace: for trouble being gone, comfort shouldremain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abidesand happiness takes his leave.You embrace your charge too willingly. I think thisis your daughter.Her mother hath many times told me so.Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by thiswhat you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathersherself. Be happy, lady; for you are like anhonourable father.If Signior Leonato be her father, she would nothave his head on her shoulders for all Messina, aslike him as she is.I wonder that you will still be talking, SigniorBenedick: nobody marks you.What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?Is it possible disdain should die while she hathsuch meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick?Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you comein her presence.Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain Iam loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and Iwould I could find in my heart that I had not a hardheart; for, truly, I love none.A dear happiness to women: they would else havebeen troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank Godand my cold blood, I am of your humour for that: Ihad rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a manswear he loves me.God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so somegentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinatescratched face.Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere sucha face as yours were.Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, andso good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God'sname; I have done.You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudioand Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hathinvited you all. I tell him we shall stay here atthe least a month; and he heartily prays someoccasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is nohypocrite, but prays from his heart.If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn.Let me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled tothe prince your brother, I owe you all duty.I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thankyou.Please it your grace lead on?Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?I noted her not; but I looked on her.Is she not a modest young lady?Do you question me, as an honest man should do, formy simple true judgment; or would you have me speakafter my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?No; I pray thee speak in sober judgment.Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a highpraise, too brown for a fair praise and too littlefor a great praise: only this commendation I canafford her, that were she other than she is, shewere unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, Ido not like her.Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell metruly how thou likest her.Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?Can the world buy such a jewel?Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you thiswith a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack,to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan arare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man takeyou, to go in the song?In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever Ilooked on.I can see yet without spectacles and I see no suchmatter: there's her cousin, an she were notpossessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beautyas the first of May doth the last of December. But Ihope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn thecontrary, if Hero would be my wife.Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the worldone man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again?Go to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neckinto a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh awaySundays. Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you.What secret hath held you here, that you followednot to Leonato's?I would your grace would constrain me to tell.I charge thee on thy allegiance.You hear, Count Claudio: I can be secret as a dumbman; I would have you think so; but, on myallegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He isin love. With who? now that is your grace's part.Mark how short his answer is;--With Hero, Leonato'sshort daughter.If this were so, so were it uttered.Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should beso.'If my passion change not shortly, God forbid itshould be otherwise.Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.By my troth, I speak my thought.And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.That I love her, I feel.That she is worthy, I know.That I neither feel how she should be loved norknow how she should be worthy, is the opinion thatfire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despiteof beauty.And never could maintain his part but in the forceof his will.That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that shebrought me up, I likewise give her most humblethanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in myforehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick,all women shall pardon me. Because I will not dothem the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself theright to trust none; and the fine is, for the whichI may go the finer, I will live a bachelor.I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord,not with love: prove that ever I lose more bloodwith love than I will get again with drinking, pickout mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang meup at the door of a brothel-house for the sign ofblind Cupid.Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thouwilt prove a notable argument.If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shootat me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped onthe shoulder, and called Adam.Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bulldoth bear the yoke.'The savage bull may; but if ever the sensibleBenedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and setthem in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted,and in such great letters as they write 'Here isgood horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver inVenice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.I look for an earthquake too, then.Well, you temporize with the hours. In themeantime, good Signior Benedick, repair toLeonato's: commend me to him and tell him I willnot fail him at supper; for indeed he hath madegreat preparation.I have almost matter enough in me for such anembassage; and so I commit you--To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,--The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of yourdiscourse is sometime guarded with fragments, andthe guards are but slightly basted on neither: ereyou flout old ends any further, examine yourconscience: and so I leave you.My liege, your highness now may do me good.My love is thine to teach: teach it but how,And thou shalt see how apt it is to learnAny hard lesson that may do thee good.Hath Leonato any son, my lord?No child but Hero; she's his only heir.Dost thou affect her, Claudio?O, my lord,When you went onward on this ended action,I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,That liked, but had a rougher task in handThan to drive liking to the name of love:But now I am return'd and that war-thoughtsHave left their places vacant, in their roomsCome thronging soft and delicate desires,All prompting me how fair young Hero is,Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars.Thou wilt be like a lover presentlyAnd tire the hearer with a book of words.If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,And I will break with her and with her father,And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this endThat thou began'st to twist so fine a story?How sweetly you do minister to love,That know love's grief by his complexion!But lest my liking might too sudden seem,I would have salved it with a longer treatise.What need the bridge much broader than the flood?The fairest grant is the necessity.Look, what will serve is fit: 'tis once, thou lovest,And I will fit thee with the remedy.I know we shall have revelling to-night:I will assume thy part in some disguiseAnd tell fair Hero I am Claudio,And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heartAnd take her hearing prisoner with the forceAnd strong encounter of my amorous tale:Then after to her father will I break;And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.In practise let us put it presently.