Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desireher to rise.I will, lady.And bid her come hither.Well.Troth, I think your other rabato were better.No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.By my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant yourcousin will say so.My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wearnone but this.I like the new tire within excellently, if the hairwere a thought browner; and your gown's a most rarefashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan'sgown that they praise so.O, that exceeds, they say.By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect ofyours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced withsilver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves,and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel:but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellentfashion, yours is worth ten on 't.God give me joy to wear it! for my heart isexceeding heavy.'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is notmarriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lordhonourable without marriage? I think you would haveme say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and badthinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offendnobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for ahusband'? None, I think, and it be the right husbandand the right wife; otherwise 'tis light, and notheavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes.Good morrow, coz.Good morrow, sweet Hero.Why how now? do you speak in the sick tune?I am out of all other tune, methinks.Clap's into 'Light o' love;' that goes without aburden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.Ye light o' love, with your heels! then, if yourhusband have stables enough, you'll see he shalllack no barns.O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; tis time you wereready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?For the letter that begins them all, H.Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no moresailing by the star.What means the fool, trow?Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!These gloves the count sent me; they are anexcellent perfume.I am stuffed, cousin; I cannot smell.A maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold.O, God help me! God help me! how long have youprofessed apprehension?Even since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?It is not seen enough, you should wear it in yourcap. By my troth, I am sick.Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus,and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.There thou prickest her with a thistle.Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral inthis Benedictus.Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; Imeant, plain holy-thistle. You may think perchancethat I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I amnot such a fool to think what I list, nor I listnot to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think,if I would think my heart out of thinking, that youare in love or that you will be in love or that youcan be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, andnow is he become a man: he swore he would nevermarry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eatshis meat without grudging: and how you may beconverted I know not, but methinks you look withyour eyes as other women do.What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?Not a false gallop.Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, SigniorBenedick, Don John, and all the gallants of thetown, are come to fetch you to church.Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.