Was not Count John here at supper?I saw him not.How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can seehim but I am heart-burned an hour after.He is of a very melancholy disposition.He were an excellent man that were made just in themidway between him and Benedick: the one is toolike an image and says nothing, and the other toolike my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John'smouth, and half Count John's melancholy in SigniorBenedick's face,--With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and moneyenough in his purse, such a man would win any womanin the world, if a' could get her good-will.By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee ahusband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.In faith, she's too curst.Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God'ssending that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curstcow short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none.So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.Just, if he send me no husband; for the whichblessing I am at him upon my knees every morning andevening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with abeard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.You may light on a husband that hath no beard.What should I do with him? dress him in my appareland make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath abeard is more than a youth, and he that hath nobeard is less than a man: and he that is more thana youth is not for me, and he that is less than aman, I am not for him: therefore, I will even takesixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead hisapes into hell.Well, then, go you into hell?No, but to the gate; and there will the devil meetme, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, andsay 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you toheaven; here's no place for you maids:' so deliverI up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for theheavens; he shows me where the bachelors sit, andthere live we as merry as the day is long.[To HERO]  Well, niece, I trust you will be ruledby your father.Yes, faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsyand say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for allthat, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or elsemake another curtsy and say 'Father, as it pleaseme.'Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.Not till God make men of some other metal thanearth. Would it not grieve a woman to beovermastered with a pierce of valiant dust? to makean account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren;and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.Daughter, remember what I told you: if the princedo solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you benot wooed in good time: if the prince be tooimportant, tell him there is measure in every thingand so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero:wooing, wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig,a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hotand hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full asfantastical; the wedding, mannerly-modest, as ameasure, full of state and ancientry; and then comesrepentance and, with his bad legs, falls into thecinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.The revellers are entering, brother: make good room.Lady, will you walk about with your friend?So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.With me in your company?I may say so, when I please.And when please you to say so?When I like your favour; for God defend the luteshould be like the case!My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.Why, then, your visor should be thatched.Speak low, if you speak love.Well, I would you did like me.So would not I, for your own sake; for I have manyill-qualities.Which is one?I say my prayers aloud.I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.God match me with a good dancer!Amen.And God keep him out of my sight when the dance isdone! Answer, clerk.No more words: the clerk is answered.I know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio.At a word, I am not.I know you by the waggling of your head.To tell you true, I counterfeit him.You could never do him so ill-well, unless you werethe very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: youare he, you are he.At a word, I am not.Come, come, do you think I do not know you by yourexcellent wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to,mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's anend.Will you not tell me who told you so?No, you shall pardon me.Nor will you not tell me who you are?Not now.That I was disdainful, and that I had my good witout of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this wasSignior Benedick that said so.What's he?I am sure you know him well enough.Not I, believe me.Did he never make you laugh?I pray you, what is he?Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool;only his gift is in devising impossible slanders:none but libertines delight in him; and thecommendation is not in his wit, but in his villany;for he both pleases men and angers them, and thenthey laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is inthe fleet: I would he had boarded me.When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me;which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at,strikes him into melancholy; and then there's apartridge wing saved, for the fool will eat nosupper that night.We must follow the leaders.In every good thing.Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them atthe next turning.Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hathwithdrawn her father to break with him about it.The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.Are not you Signior Benedick?You know me well; I am he.Signior, you are very near my brother in his love:he is enamoured on Hero; I pray you, dissuade himfrom her: she is no equal for his birth: you maydo the part of an honest man in it.How know you he loves her?I heard him swear his affection.So did I too; and he swore he would marry her to-night.Come, let us to the banquet.Thus answer I in the name of Benedick,But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.'Tis certain so; the prince wooes for himself.Friendship is constant in all other thingsSave in the office and affairs of love:Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues;Let every eye negotiate for itselfAnd trust no agent; for beauty is a witchAgainst whose charms faith melteth into blood.This is an accident of hourly proof,Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero!Count Claudio?Yea, the same.Come, will you go with me?Whither?Even to the next willow, about your own business,county. What fashion will you wear the garland of?about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or underyour arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wearit one way, for the prince hath got your Hero.I wish him joy of her.Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier: so theysell bullocks. But did you think the prince wouldhave served you thus?I pray you, leave me.Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas theboy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.If it will not be, I'll leave you.Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges.But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and notknow me! The prince's fool! Ha? It may be I gounder that title because I am merry. Yea, but so Iam apt to do myself wrong; I am not so reputed: itis the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatricethat puts the world into her person and so gives meout. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.Now, signior, where's the count? did you see him?Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in awarren: I told him, and I think I told him true,that your grace had got the good will of this younglady; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree,either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, orto bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.To be whipped! What's his fault?The flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, beingoverjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it hiscompanion, and he steals it.Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? Thetransgression is in the stealer.Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made,and the garland too; for the garland he might haveworn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed onyou, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest.I will but teach them to sing, and restore them tothe owner.If their singing answer your saying, by my faith,you say honestly.The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: thegentleman that danced with her told her she is muchwronged by you.O, she misused me past the endurance of a block!an oak but with one green leaf on it would haveanswered her; my very visor began to assume life andscold with her. She told me, not thinking I had beenmyself, that I was the prince's jester, that I wasduller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jestwith such impossible conveyance upon me that I stoodlike a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting atme. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs:if her breath were as terrible as her terminations,there were no living near her; she would infect tothe north star. I would not marry her, though shewere endowed with all that Adam bad left him beforehe transgressed: she would have made Hercules haveturned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to makethe fire too. Come, talk not of her: you shall findher the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to Godsome scholar would conjure her; for certainly, whileshe is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in asanctuary; and people sin upon purpose, because theywould go thither; so, indeed, all disquiet, horrorand perturbation follows her.Look, here she comes.Will your grace command me any service to theworld's end? I will go on the slightest errand nowto the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on;I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from thefurthest inch of Asia, bring you the length ofPrester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the greatCham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies,rather than hold three words' conference with thisharpy. You have no employment for me?None, but to desire your good company.O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannotendure my Lady Tongue.Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart ofSignior Benedick.Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gavehim use for it, a double heart for his single one:marry, once before he won it of me with false dice,therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest Ishould prove the mother of fools. I have broughtCount Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?Not sad, my lord.How then? sick?Neither, my lord.The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, norwell; but civil count, civil as an orange, andsomething of that jealous complexion.I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true;though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit isfalse. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, andfair Hero is won: I have broke with her father,and his good will obtained: name the day ofmarriage, and God give thee joy!Count, take of me my daughter, and with her myfortunes: his grace hath made the match, and angrace say Amen to it.Speak, count, 'tis your cue.Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I werebut little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, asyou are mine, I am yours: I give away myself foryou and dote upon the exchange.Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouthwith a kiss, and let not him speak neither.In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps onthe windy side of care. My cousin tells him in hisear that he is in her heart.And so she doth, cousin.Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to theworld but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in acorner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.I would rather have one of your father's getting.Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Yourfather got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.Will you have me, lady?No, my lord, unless I might have another forworking-days: your grace is too costly to wearevery day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: Iwas born to speak all mirth and no matter.Your silence most offends me, and to be merry bestbecomes you; for, out of question, you were born ina merry hour.No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then therewas a star danced, and under that was I born.Cousins, God give you joy!Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.There's little of the melancholy element in her, mylord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, andnot ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say,she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and wakedherself with laughing.She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.She were an excellent wife for Benedict.O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married,they would talk themselves mad.County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till lovehave all his rites.Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a justseven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have allthings answer my mind.Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing:but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not godully by us. I will in the interim undertake one ofHercules' labours; which is, to bring SigniorBenedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain ofaffection the one with the other. I would fain haveit a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, ifyou three will but minister such assistance as Ishall give you direction.My lord, I am for you, though it cost me tennights' watchings.And I, my lord.And you too, gentle Hero?I will do any modest office, my lord, to help mycousin to a good husband.And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband thatI know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noblestrain, of approved valour and confirmed honesty. Iwill teach you how to humour your cousin, that sheshall fall in love with Benedick; and I, with yourtwo helps, will so practise on Benedick that, indespite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, heshall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,Cupid is no longer an archer: hi s glory shall beours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,and I will tell you my drift.