Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:The lamentable change is from the best;The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worstOwes nothing to thy blasts. But who comes here?My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,Lie would not yield to age.O, my good lord, I have been your tenant, andyour father's tenant, these fourscore years.Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:Thy comforts can do me no good at all;Thee they may hurt.Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,Our means secure us, and our mere defectsProve our commodities. O dear son Edgar,The food of thy abused father's wrath!Might I but live to see thee in my touch,I'ld say I had eyes again!How now! Who's there?[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am atthe worst'?I am worse than e'er I was.'Tis poor mad Tom.[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is notSo long as we can say  'This is the worst.'Fellow, where goest?Is it a beggar-man?Madman and beggar too.He has some reason, else he could not beg.I' the last night's storm I such a fellow saw;Which made me think a man a worm: my sonCame then into my mind; and yet my mindWas then scarce friends with him: I have heardmore since.As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.They kill us for their sport.[Aside]	How should this be?Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!Is that the naked fellow?Ay, my lord.Then, prithee, get thee gone: if, for my sake,Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,I' the way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;And bring some covering for this naked soul,Who I'll entreat to lead me.Alack, sir, he is mad.'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;Above the rest, be gone.I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,Come on't what will.Sirrah, naked fellow,--Poor Tom's a-cold.I cannot daub it further.Come hither, fellow.[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.Know'st thou the way to Dover?Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. PoorTom hath been scared out of his good wits: blessthee, good man's son, from the foul fiend! fivefiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, asObidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, ofstealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, ofmopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaidsand waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plaguesHave humbled to all strokes: that I am wretchedMakes thee the happier: heavens, deal so still!Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,That slaves your ordinance, that will not seeBecause he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;So distribution should undo excess,And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?Ay, master.There is a cliff, whose high and bending headLooks fearfully in the confined deep:Bring me but to the very brim of it,And I'll repair the misery thou dost bearWith something rich about me: from that placeI shall no leading need.Give me thy arm:Poor Tom shall lead thee.