If but as well I other accents borrow,That can my speech defuse, my good intentMay carry through itself to that full issueFor which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,So may it come, thy master, whom thou lovest,Shall find thee full of labours.Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.How now! what art thou?A man, sir.What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?I do profess to be no less than I seem; to servehim truly that will put me in trust: to love himthat is honest; to converse with him that is wise,and says little; to fear judgment; to fight when Icannot choose; and to eat no fish.What art thou?A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for aking, thou art poor enough. What wouldst thou?Service.Who wouldst thou serve?You.Dost thou know me, fellow?No, sir; but you have that in your countenancewhich I would fain call master.What's that?Authority.What services canst thou do?I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curioustale in telling it, and deliver a plain messagebluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I amqualified in; and the best of me is diligence.How old art thou?Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, norso old to dote on her for any thing: I have yearson my back forty eight.Follow me; thou shalt serve me: if I like thee noworse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?Go you, and call my fool hither.You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?So please you,--What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.How now! where's that mongrel?He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he wouldnot.He would not!My lord, I know not what the matter is; but, to myjudgment, your highness is not entertained with thatceremonious affection as you were wont; there's agreat abatement of kindness appears as well in thegeneral dependants as in the duke himself also andyour daughter.Ha! sayest thou so?I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken;for my duty cannot be silent when I think yourhighness wronged.Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: Ihave perceived a most faint neglect of late; which Ihave rather blamed as mine own jealous curiositythan as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness:I will look further into't. But where's my fool? Ihave not seen him this two days.Since my young lady's going into France, sir, thefool hath much pined away.No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, andtell my daughter I would speak with her.Go you, call hither my fool.O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,sir?My lady's father.'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: yourwhoreson dog! you slave! you cur!I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?I'll not be struck, my lord.Nor tripped neither, you base football player.I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'lllove thee.Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences:away, away! if you will measure your lubber'slength again, tarry: but away! go to; have youwisdom? so.Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there'searnest of thy service.Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.Why, fool?Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits,thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,and did the third a blessing against his will; ifthou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!Why, my boy?If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombsmyself. There's mine; beg another of thy daughters.Take heed, sirrah; the whip.Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whippedout, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.A pestilent gall to me!Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.Do.Mark it, nuncle:Have more than thou showest,Speak less than thou knowest,Lend less than thou owest,Ride more than thou goest,Learn more than thou trowest,Set less than thou throwest;Leave thy drink and thy whore,And keep in-a-door,And thou shalt have moreThan two tens to a score.This is nothing, fool.Then 'tis like the breath of an unfee'd lawyer; yougave me nothing for't. Can you make no use ofnothing, nuncle?Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing.[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent ofhis land comes to: he will not believe a fool.A bitter fool!Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between abitter fool and a sweet fool?No, lad; teach me.That lord that counsell'd theeTo give away thy land,Come place him here by me,Do thou for him stand:The sweet and bitter foolWill presently appear;The one in motley here,The other found out there.Dost thou call me fool, boy?All thy other titles thou hast given away; thatthou wast born with.This is not altogether fool, my lord.No, faith, lords and great men will not let me; ifI had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:and ladies too, they will not let me have all foolto myself; they'll be snatching. Give me an egg,nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.What two crowns shall they be?Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eatup the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thouclovest thy crown i' the middle, and gavest awayboth parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'erthe dirt: thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown,when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speaklike myself in this, let him be whipped that firstfinds it so.Fools had ne'er less wit in a year;For wise men are grown foppish,They know not how their wits to wear,Their manners are so apish.When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thydaughters thy mothers: for when thou gavest themthe rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,Then they for sudden joy did weep,And I for sorrow sung,That such a king should play bo-peep,And go the fools among.Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teachthy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lthave me whipped for lying; and sometimes I amwhipped for holding my peace. I had rather be anykind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not bethee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,and left nothing i' the middle: here comes one o'the parings.How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown.Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need tocare for her frowning; now thou art an O without afigure: I am better than thou art now; I am a fool,thou art nothing.Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue; so your facebids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,He that keeps nor crust nor crum,Weary of all, shall want some.That's a shealed peascod.Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,But other of your insolent retinueDo hourly carp and quarrel; breaking forthIn rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,I had thought, by making this well known unto you,To have found a safe redress; but now grow fearful,By what yourself too late have spoke and done.That you protect this course, and put it onBy your allowance; which if you should, the faultWould not 'scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,Might in their working do you that offence,Which else were shame, that then necessityWill call discreet proceeding.For, you trow, nuncle,The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,That it's had it head bit off by it young.So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.Are you our daughter?Come, sir,I would you would make use of that good wisdom,Whereof I know you are fraught; and put awayThese dispositions, that of late transform youFrom what you rightly are.May not an ass know when the cartdraws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?Either his notion weakens, his discerningsAre lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.Who is it that can tell me who I am?Lear's shadow.I would learn that; for, by themarks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,I should be false persuaded I had daughters.Which they will make an obedient father.Your name, fair gentlewoman?This admiration, sir, is much o' the savourOf other your new pranks. I do beseech youTo understand my purposes aright:As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd and bold,That this our court, infected with their manners,Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lustMake it more like a tavern or a brothelThan a graced palace. The shame itself doth speakFor instant remedy: be then desiredBy her, that else will take the thing she begs,A little to disquantity your train;And the remainder, that shall still depend,To be such men as may besort your age,And know themselves and you.Darkness and devils!Saddle my horses; call my train together:Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.Yet have I left a daughter.You strike my people; and your disorder'd rabbleMake servants of their betters.Woe, that too late repents,--O, sir, are you come?Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,More hideous when thou show'st thee in a childThan the sea-monster!Pray, sir, be patient.[To GONERIL]  Detested kite! thou liest.My train are men of choice and rarest parts,That all particulars of duty know,And in the most exact regard supportThe worships of their name. O most small fault,How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of natureFrom the fix'd place; drew from heart all love,And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in,And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorantOf what hath moved you.It may be so, my lord.Hear, nature, hear; dear goddess, hear!Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intendTo make this creature fruitful!Into her womb convey sterility!Dry up in her the organs of increase;And from her derogate body never springA babe to honour her! If she must teem,Create her child of spleen; that it may live,And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth;With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks;Turn all her mother's pains and benefitsTo laughter and contempt; that she may feelHow sharper than a serpent's tooth it isTo have a thankless child! Away, away!Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?Never afflict yourself to know the cause;But let his disposition have that scopeThat dotage gives it.What, fifty of my followers at a clap!Within a fortnight!What's the matter, sir?I'll tell thee:Life and death! I am ashamedThat thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!The untented woundings of a father's cursePierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes,Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,And cast you, with the waters that you lose,To temper clay. Yea, it is come to this?Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:When she shall hear this of thee, with her nailsShe'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt findThat I'll resume the shape which thou dost thinkI have cast off for ever: thou shalt,I warrant thee.Do you mark that, my lord?I cannot be so partial, Goneril,To the great love I bear you,--Pray you, content. What, Oswald, ho!You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the foolwith thee.A fox, when one has caught her,And such a daughter,Should sure to the slaughter,If my cap would buy a halter:So the fool follows after.This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!'Tis politic and safe to let him keepAt point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,He may enguard his dotage with their powers,And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!Well, you may fear too far.Safer than trust too far:Let me still take away the harms I fear,Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.What he hath utter'd I have writ my sisterIf she sustain him and his hundred knightsWhen I have show'd the unfitness,--How now, Oswald!What, have you writ that letter to my sister?Yes, madam.Take you some company, and away to horse:Inform her full of my particular fear;And thereto add such reasons of your ownAs may compact it more. Get you gone;And hasten your return.No, no, my lord,This milky gentleness and course of yoursThough I condemn not, yet, under pardon,You are much more attask'd for want of wisdomThan praised for harmful mildness.How far your eyes may pierce I can not tell:Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.Nay, then--Well, well; the event.