Tell not me; when the butt is out, we will drinkwater; not a drop before: therefore bear up, andboard 'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.Servant-monster! the folly of this island! Theysay there's but five upon this isle: we are threeof them; if th' other two be brained like us, thestate totters.Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyesare almost set in thy head.Where should they be set else? he were a bravemonster indeed, if they were set in his tail.My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in sack:for my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere Icould recover the shore, five and thirty leagues offand on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,monster, or my standard.Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet saynothing neither.Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest agood moon-calf.How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.I'll not serve him; he's not valiant.Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case tojustle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou,was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so muchsack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie,being but half a fish and half a monster?Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord?'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!Lo, lo, again! bite him to death, I prithee.Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if youprove a mutineer,--the next tree! The poor monster'smy subject and he shall not suffer indignity.I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased tohearken once again to the suit I made to thee?Marry, will I	kneel and repeat it; I will stand,and so shall Trinculo.As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant, asorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.Thou liest.Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou: I would myvaliant master would destroy thee! I do not lie.Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale, bythis hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.Why, I said nothing.Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.I say, by sorcery he got this isle;From me he got it. if thy greatness willRevenge it on him,--for I know thou darest,But this thing dare not,--That's most certain.Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.How now shall this be compassed?Canst thou bring me to the party?Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,Where thou mayst knock a nail into his bead.Thou liest; thou canst not.What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!I do beseech thy greatness, give him blowsAnd take his bottle from him: when that's goneHe shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show himWhere the quick freshes are.Trinculo, run into no further danger:interrupt the monster one word further, and,by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doorsand make a stock-fish of thee.Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go fartheroff.Didst thou not say he lied?Thou liest.Do I so? take thou that.As you like this, give me the lie another time.I did not give the lie. Out o' yourwits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!this can sack and drinking do. A murrain onyour monster, and the devil take your fingers!Ha, ha, ha!Now, forward with your tale. Prithee, stand fartheroff.Beat him enough: after a little timeI'll beat him too.Stand farther. Come, proceed.Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him,I' th' afternoon to sleep: there thou mayst brain him,Having first seized his books, or with a logBatter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,Or cut his wezand with thy knife. RememberFirst to possess his books; for without themHe's but a sot, as I am, nor hath notOne spirit to command: they all do hate himAs rootedly as I. Burn but his books.He has brave utensils,--for so he calls them--Which when he has a house, he'll deck withalAnd that most deeply to consider isThe beauty of his daughter; he himselfCalls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,But only Sycorax my dam and she;But she as far surpasseth SycoraxAs great'st does least.Is it so brave a lass?Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant.And bring thee forth brave brood.Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and Iwill be king and queen--save our graces!--andTrinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thoulike the plot, Trinculo?Excellent.Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but,while thou livest, keep a good tongue in thy head.Within this half hour will he be asleep:Wilt thou destroy him then?Ay, on mine honour.This will I tell my master.Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure:Let us be jocund: will you troll the catchYou taught me but while-ere?At thy request, monster, I will do reason, anyreason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.Flout 'em and scout 'emAnd scout 'em and flout 'emThought is free.That's not the tune.What is this same?This is the tune of our catch, played by the pictureof Nobody.If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness:if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.O, forgive me my sins!He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!Art thou afeard?No, monster, not I.Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.Sometimes a thousand twangling instrumentsWill hum about mine ears, and sometime voicesThat, if I then had waked after long sleep,Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,The clouds methought would open and show richesReady to drop upon me that, when I waked,I cried to dream again.This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shallhave my music for nothing.When Prospero is destroyed.That shall be by and by: I remember the story.The sound is going away; let's follow it, andafter do our work.Lead, monster; we'll follow. I would I could seethis tabourer; he lays it on.Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.