of thunder and lightning heard.Boatswain!Here, master: what cheer?Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to themaster's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,if room enough!Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?Play the men.I pray now, keep below.Where is the master, boatswain?Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep yourcabins: you do assist the storm.Nay, good, be patient.When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarersfor the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.None that I more love than myself. You are acounsellor; if you can command these elements tosilence, and work the peace of the present, we willnot hand a rope more; use your authority: if youcannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and makeyourself ready in your cabin for the mischance ofthe hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Outof our way, I say.I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks hehath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion isperfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to hishanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,for our own doth little advantage. If he be notborn to be hanged, our case is miserable.Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bringher to try with main-course.A plague upon this howling! they are louder thanthe weather or our office.Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'erand drown? Have you a mind to sink?A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,incharitable dog!Work you then.Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship wereno stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as anunstanched wench.Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off tosea again; lay her off.All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!What, must our mouths be cold?The king and prince at prayers! let's assist them,For our case is as theirs.I'm out of patience.We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowningThe washing of ten tides!He'll be hang'd yet,Though every drop of water swear against itAnd gape at widest to glut him.Let's all sink with the king.Let's take leave of him.Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for anacre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, anything. The wills above be done! but I would faindie a dry death.