All the infections that the sun sucks upFrom bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make himBy inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear meAnd yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,Fright me with urchin--shows, pitch me i' the mire,Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the darkOut of my way, unless he bid 'em; butFor every trifle are they set upon me;Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at meAnd after bite me, then like hedgehogs whichLie tumbling in my barefoot way and mountTheir pricks at my footfall; sometime am IAll wound with adders who with cloven tonguesDo hiss me into madness.Lo, now, lo!Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment meFor bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;Perchance he will not mind me.Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear offany weather at all, and another storm brewing;I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same blackcloud, yond huge one, looks like a foulbombard that would shed his liquor. If itshould thunder as it did before, I know notwhere to hide my head: yond same cloud cannotchoose but fall by pailfuls. What have wehere? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish:he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell; a kind of not of the newest Poor-John. A strange fish! Were I in England now,as once I was, and had but this fish painted,not a holiday fool there but would give a pieceof silver: there would this monster make aman; any strange beast there makes a man:when they will not give a doit to relieve a lamebeggar, they will lazy out ten to see a deadIndian. Legged like a man and his fins likearms! Warm o' my troth! I do now let loosemy opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish,but an islander, that hath lately suffered by athunderbolt.Alas, the storm is come again! my best way is tocreep under his gaberdine; there is no othershelter hereabouts: misery acquaints a man withstrange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till thedregs of the storm be past.I shall no more to sea, to sea,Here shall I die ashore--This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man'sfuneral: well, here's my comfort.The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,The gunner and his mateLoved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery,But none of us cared for Kate;For she had a tongue with a tang,Would cry to a sailor, Go hang!She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch,Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort.Do not torment me: Oh!What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you puttricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? Ihave not scaped drowning to be afeard now of yourfour legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man asever went on four legs cannot make him give ground;and it shall be said so again while Stephanobreathes at's nostrils.The spirit torments me; Oh!This is some monster of the isle with four legs, whohath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devilshould he learn our language? I will give him somerelief, if it be but for that. if I can recover himand keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's apresent for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood home faster.He's in his fit now and does not talk after thewisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he havenever drunk wine afore will go near to remove hisfit. If I can recover him and keep him tame, I willnot take too much for him; he shall pay for him thathath him, and that soundly.Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, Iknow it by thy trembling: now Prosper works upon thee.Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is thatwhich will give language to you, cat: open yourmouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you,and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:open your chaps again.I should know that voice: it should be--but he isdrowned; and these are devils: O defend me!Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster!His forward voice now is to speak well of hisfriend; his backward voice is to utter foul speechesand to detract. If all the wine in my bottle willrecover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! Iwill pour some in thy other mouth.Stephano!Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This isa devil, and no monster: I will leave him; I have nolong spoon.Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me andspeak to me: for I am Trinculo--be not afeard--thygood friend Trinculo.If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull theeby the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs,these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! Howcamest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? canhe vent Trinculos?I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke. Butart thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou artnot drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid meunder the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear ofthe storm. And art thou living, Stephano? OStephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped!Prithee, do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant.[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they benot sprites.That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor.I will kneel to him.How didst thou 'scape? How camest thou hither?swear by this bottle how thou camest hither. Iescaped upon a butt of sack which the sailorsheaved o'erboard, by this bottle; which I made ofthe bark of a tree with mine own hands since I wascast ashore.I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject;for the liquor is not earthly.Here; swear then how thou escapedst.Swum ashore. man, like a duck: I can swim like aduck, I'll be sworn.Here, kiss the book. Though thou canst swim like aduck, thou art made like a goose.O Stephano. hast any more of this?The whole butt, man: my cellar is in a rock by thesea-side where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf!how does thine ague?Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i'the moon when time was.I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee:My mistress show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.Come, swear to that; kiss the book: I will furnishit anon with new contents swear.By this good light, this is a very shallow monster!I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The man i'the moon! A most poor credulous monster! Welldrawn, monster, in good sooth!I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.By this light, a most perfidious and drunkenmonster! when 's god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy subject.Come on then; down, and swear.I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headedmonster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in myheart to beat him,--Come, kiss.But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries;I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,Thou wondrous man.A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of aPoor drunkard!I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow;And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts;Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee howTo snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring theeTo clustering filberts and sometimes I'll get theeYoung scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?I prithee now, lead the way without any moretalking. Trinculo, the king and all our companyelse being drowned, we will inherit here: here;bear my bottle: fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him byand by again.[Sings drunkenly]Farewell master; farewell, farewell!A howling monster: a drunken monster!No more dams I'll make for fishNor fetch in firingAt requiring;Nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish'Ban, 'Ban, CacalibanHas a new master: get a new man.Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,hey-day, freedom!O brave monster! Lead the way.