Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be amarried man, he's his wife's head, and I can nevercut off a woman's head.Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me adirect answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudioand Barnardine. Here is in our prison a commonexecutioner, who in his office lacks a helper: ifyou will take it on you to assist him, it shallredeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall haveyour full time of imprisonment and your deliverancewith an unpitied whipping, for you have been anotorious bawd.Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind;but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. Iwould be glad to receive some instruction from myfellow partner.What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?Do you call, sir?Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow inyour execution. If you think it meet, compound withhim by the year, and let him abide here with you; ifnot, use him for the present and dismiss him. Hecannot plead his estimation with you; he hath been a bawd.A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turnthe scale.Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, agood favour you have, but that you have a hanginglook,--do you call, sir, your occupation a mystery?Ay, sir; a mysteryPainting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; andyour whores, sir, being members of my occupation,using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:but what mystery there should be in hanging, if Ishould be hanged, I cannot imagine.Sir, it is a mystery.Proof?Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it betoo little for your thief, your true man thinks itbig enough; if it be too big for your thief, yourthief thinks it little enough: so every true man'sapparel fits your thief.Are you agreed?Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman isa more penitent trade than your bawd; he dothoftener ask forgiveness.You, sirrah, provide your block and your axeto-morrow four o'clock.Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you haveoccasion to use me for your own turn, you shall findme yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe youa good turn.Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:The one has my pity; not a jot the other,Being a murderer, though he were my brother.Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrowThou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labourWhen it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:He will not wake.Who can do good on him?Well, go, prepare yourself.But, hark, what noise?Heaven give your spirits comfort!By and by.I hope it is some pardon or reprieveFor the most gentle Claudio.Welcome father.The best and wholesomest spirts of the nightEnvelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?None, since the curfew rung.Not Isabel?No.They will, then, ere't be long.What comfort is for Claudio?There's some in hope.It is a bitter deputy.Not so, not so; his life is parallel'dEven with the stroke and line of his great justice:He doth with holy abstinence subdueThat in himself which he spurs on his powerTo qualify in others: were he meal'd with thatWhich he corrects, then were he tyrannous;But this being so, he's just.Now are they come.This is a gentle provost: seldom whenThe steeled gaoler is the friend of men.How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with hasteThat wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.There he must stay until the officerArise to let him in: he is call'd up.Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,But he must die to-morrow?None, sir, none.As near the dawning, provost, as it is,You shall hear more ere morning.HappilyYou something know; yet I believe there comesNo countermand; no such example have we:Besides, upon the very siege of justiceLord Angelo hath to the public earProfess'd the contrary.This is his lordship's man.And here comes Claudio's pardon.[Giving a paper]My lord hath sent you this note; and by me thisfurther charge, that you swerve not from thesmallest article of it, neither in time, matter, orother circumstance. Good morrow; for, as I take it,it is almost day.I shall obey him.[Aside]  This is his pardon, purchased by such sinFor which the pardoner himself is in.Hence hath offence his quick celerity,When it is born in high authority:When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended,That for the fault's love is the offender friended.Now, sir, what news?I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remissin mine office, awakens me with this unwontedputting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.Pray you, let's hear.[Reads]'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, letClaudio be executed by four of the clock; and in theafternoon Barnardine: for my better satisfaction,let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Letthis be duly performed; with a thought that moredepends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus failnot to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'What say you to this, sir?What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in theafternoon?A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred; onethat is a prisoner nine years old.How came it that the absent duke had not eitherdelivered him to his liberty or executed him? Ihave heard it was ever his manner to do so.His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,indeed, his fact, till now in the government of LordAngelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.It is now apparent?Most manifest, and not denied by himself.Hath he born himself penitently in prison? howseems he to be touched?A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully butas a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearlessof what's past, present, or to come; insensible ofmortality, and desperately mortal.He wants advice.He will hear none: he hath evermore had the libertyof the prison; give him leave to escape hence, hewould not: drunk many times a day, if not many daysentirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as ifto carry him to execution, and showed him a seemingwarrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.More of him anon. There is written in your brow,provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it nottruly, my ancient skill beguiles me; but, in theboldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, isno greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hathsentenced him. To make you understand this in amanifested effect, I crave but four days' respite;for the which you are to do me both a present and adangerous courtesy.Pray, sir, in what?In the delaying death.A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,and an express command, under penalty, to deliverhis head in the view of Angelo? I may make my caseas Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if myinstructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardinebe this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it wasthe desire of the penitent to be so bared before hisdeath: you know the course is common. If any thingfall to you upon this, more than thanks and goodfortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will pleadagainst it with my life.Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?To him, and to his substitutes.You will think you have made no offence, if the dukeavouch the justice of your dealing?But what likelihood is in that?Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I seeyou fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, norpersuasion can with ease attempt you, I will gofurther than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of theduke: you know the character, I doubt not; and thesignet is not strange to you.I know them both.The contents of this is the return of the duke: youshall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where youshall find, within these two days he will be here.This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he thisvery day receives letters of strange tenor;perchance of the duke's death; perchance enteringinto some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of whatis writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up theshepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how thesethings should be: all difficulties are but easywhen they are known. Call your executioner, and offwith Barnardine's head: I will give him a presentshrift and advise him for a better place. Yet youare amazed; but this shall absolutely resolve you.Come away; it is almost clear dawn.