We must not make a scarecrow of the law,Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,And let it keep one shape, till custom make itTheir perch and not their terror.Ay, but yetLet us be keen, and rather cut a little,Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas, this gentlemanWhom I would save, had a most noble father!Let but your honour know,Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,That, in the working of your own affections,Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,Or that the resolute acting of your bloodCould have attain'd the effect of your own purpose,Whether you had not sometime in your lifeErr'd in this point which now you censure him,And pull'd the law upon you.'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,Another thing to fall. I not deny,The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,May in the sworn twelve have a thief or twoGuiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,That justice seizes: what know the lawsThat thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,The jewel that we find, we stoop and take'tBecause we see it; but what we do not seeWe tread upon, and never think of it.You may not so extenuate his offenceFor I have had such faults; but rather tell me,When I, that censure him, do so offend,Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.Be it as your wisdom will.Where is the provost?Here, if it like your honour.See that ClaudioBe executed by nine to-morrow morning:Bring him his confessor, let him be prepared;For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.[Aside]  Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall:Some run from brakes of ice, and answer none:And some condemned for a fault alone.Come, bring them away: if these be good people ina commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses incommon houses, I know no law: bring them away.How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?If it Please your honour, I am the poor duke'sconstable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean uponjustice, sir, and do bring in here before your goodhonour two notorious benefactors.Benefactors? Well; what benefactors are they? arethey not malefactors?If it? please your honour, I know not well what theyare: but precise villains they are, that I am sureof; and void of all profanation in the world thatgood Christians ought to have.This comes off well; here's a wise officer.Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is yourname? why dost thou not speak, Elbow?He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.What are you, sir?He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one thatserves a bad woman; whose house, sir, was, as theysay, plucked down in the suburbs; and now sheprofesses a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too.How know you that?My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--How? thy wife?Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--Dost thou detest her therefore?I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well asshe, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house,it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.How dost thou know that, constable?Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a womancardinally given, might have been accused infornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.By the woman's means?Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as shespit in his face, so she defied him.Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourableman; prove it.Do you hear how he misplaces?Sir, she came in great with child; and longing,saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;sir, we had but two in the house, which at that verydistant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, adish of some three-pence; your honours have seensuch dishes; they are not China dishes, but verygood dishes,--Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir.No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein inthe right: but to the point. As I say, thisMistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, andbeing great-bellied, and longing, as I said, forprunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten therest, as I said, and, as I say, paying for them veryhonestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I couldnot give you three-pence again.No, indeed.Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes,--Ay, so I did indeed.Why, very well; I telling you then, if you beremembered, that such a one and such a one were pastcure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept verygood diet, as I told you,--All this is true.Why, very well, then,--Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. Whatwas done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause tocomplain of? Come me to what was done to her.Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.No, sir, nor I mean it not.Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour'sleave. And, I beseech you, look into Master Frothhere, sir; a man of four-score pound a year; whosefather died at Hallowmas: was't not at Hallowmas,Master Froth?All-hallond eve.Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir,sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas inthe Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delightto sit, have you not?I have so; because it is an open room and good for winter.Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.This will last out a night in Russia,When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.And leave you to the hearing of the cause;Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.I beseech your honour, ask me.Well, sir; what did this gentleman to her?I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for agood purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?Ay, sir, very well.Nay; I beseech you, mark it well.Well, I do so.Doth your honour see any harm in his face?Why, no.I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worstthing about him. Good, then; if his face be theworst thing about him, how could Master Froth do theconstable's wife any harm? I would know that ofyour honour.He's in the right. Constable, what say you to it?First, an it like you, the house is a respectedhouse; next, this is a respected fellow; and hismistress is a respected woman.By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respectedperson than any of us all.Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! thetime has yet to come that she was ever respectedwith man, woman, or child.Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Isthis true?O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wickedHannibal! I respected with her before I was marriedto her! If ever I was respected with her, or shewith me, let not your worship think me the poorduke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, orI'll have mine action of battery on thee.If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have youraction of slander too.Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is'tyour worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in himthat thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let himcontinue in his courses till thou knowest what theyare.Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thouwicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou artto continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.Where were you born, friend?Here in Vienna, sir.Are you of fourscore pounds a year?Yes, an't please you, sir.So. What trade are you of, sir?Tapster; a poor widow's tapster.Your mistress' name?Mistress Overdone.Hath she had any more than one husband?Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. MasterFroth, I would not have you acquainted withtapsters: they will draw you, Master Froth, and youwill hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear nomore of you.I thank your worship. For mine own part, I nevercome into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawnin.Well, no more of it, Master Froth: farewell.Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's yourname, Master tapster?Pompey.What else?Bum, sir.Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you;so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey theGreat. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey,howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are younot? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you.Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? Whatdo you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?If the law would allow it, sir.But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shallnot be allowed in Vienna.Does your worship mean to geld and splay all theyouth of the city?No, Pompey.Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.If your worship will take order for the drabs andthe knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:it is but heading and hanging.If you head and hang all that offend that way butfor ten year together, you'll be glad to give out acommission for more heads: if this law hold inVienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in itafter three-pence a bay: if you live to see thiscome to pass, say Pompey told you so.Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of yourprophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not findyou before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewdCaesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shallhave you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.I thank your worship for your good counsel:but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shallbetter determine.Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade:The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Masterconstable. How long have you been in this place of constable?Seven year and a half, sir.I thought, by your readiness in the office, you hadcontinued in it some time. You say, seven years together?And a half, sir.Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do youwrong to put you so oft upon 't: are there not menin your ward sufficient to serve it?Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters: as theyare chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; Ido it for some piece of money, and go through withall.Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,the most sufficient of your parish.To your worship's house, sir?To my house. Fare you well.What's o'clock, think you?Eleven, sir.I pray you home to dinner with me.I humbly thank you.It grieves me for the death of Claudio;But there's no remedy.Lord Angelo is severe.It is but needful:Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.Come, sir.