If the duke with the other dukes come not tocomposition with the King of Hungary, why then allthe dukes fall upon the king.Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King ofHungary's!Amen.Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, thatwent to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scrapedone out of the table.'Thou shalt not steal'?Ay, that he razed.Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain andall the rest from their functions: they put forthto steal. There's not a soldier of us all, that, inthe thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petitionwell that prays for peace.I never heard any soldier dislike it.I believe thee; for I think thou never wast wheregrace was said.No? a dozen times at least.What, in metre?In any proportion or in any language.I think, or in any religion.Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of allcontroversy: as, for example, thou thyself art awicked villain, despite of all grace.Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.I grant; as there may between the lists and thevelvet. Thou art the list.And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou'rta three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as liefbe a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thouart piled, for a French velvet. Do I speakfeelingly now?I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painfulfeeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine ownconfession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst Ilive, forget to drink after thee.I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.Behold, behold. where Madam Mitigation comes! Ihave purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--To what, I pray?Judge.To three thousand dolours a year.Ay, and more.A French crown more.Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thouart full of error; I am sound.Nay, not as one would say, healthy; but so sound asthings that are hollow: thy bones are hollow;impiety has made a feast of thee.How now! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica?Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carriedto prison was worth five thousand of you all.Who's that, I pray thee?Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.Claudio to prison? 'tis not so.Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, sawhim carried away; and, which is more, within thesethree days his head to be chopped off.But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so.Art thou sure of this?I am too sure of it: and it is for getting MadamJulietta with child.Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me twohours since, and he was ever precise inpromise-keeping.Besides, you know, it draws something near to thespeech we had to such a purpose.But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.Away! let's go learn the truth of it.Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, whatwith the gallows and what with poverty, I amcustom-shrunk.How now! what's the news with you?Yonder man is carried to prison.Well; what has he done?A woman.But what's his offence?Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.What, is there a maid with child by him?No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You havenot heard of the proclamation, have you?What proclamation, man?All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be plucked down.And what shall become of those in the city?They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too,but that a wise burgher put in for them.But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs bepulled down?To the ground, mistress.Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!What shall become of me?Come; fear you not: good counsellors lack noclients: though you change your place, you need notchange your trade; I'll be your tapster still.Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you thathave worn your eyes almost out in the service, youwill be considered.What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost toprison; and there's Madam Juliet.Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?Bear me to prison, where I am committed.I do it not in evil disposition,But from Lord Angelo by special charge.Thus can the demigod AuthorityMake us pay down for our offence by weightThe words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:As surfeit is the father of much fast,So every scope by the immoderate useTurns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I wouldsend for certain of my creditors: and yet, to saythe truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedomas the morality of imprisonment. What's thyoffence, Claudio?What but to speak of would offend again.What, is't murder?No.Lechery?Call it so.Away, sir! you must go.One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.A hundred, if they'll do you any good.Is lechery so look'd after?Thus stands it with me: upon a true contractI got possession of Julietta's bed:You know the lady; she is fast my wife,Save that we do the denunciation lackOf outward order: this we came not to,Only for propagation of a dowerRemaining in the coffer of her friends,From whom we thought it meet to hide our loveTill time had made them for us. But it chancesThe stealth of our most mutual entertainmentWith character too gross is writ on Juliet.With child, perhaps?Unhappily, even so.And the new deputy now for the duke--Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,Or whether that the body public beA horse whereon the governor doth ride,Who, newly in the seat, that it may knowHe can command, lets it straight feel the spur;Whether the tyranny be in his place,Or in his emmence that fills it up,I stagger in:--but this new governorAwakes me all the enrolled penaltiesWhich have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wallSo long that nineteen zodiacs have gone roundAnd none of them been worn; and, for a name,Now puts the drowsy and neglected actFreshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle onthy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal tohim.I have done so, but he's not to be found.I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:This day my sister should the cloister enterAnd there receive her approbation:Acquaint her with the danger of my state:Implore her, in my voice, that she make friendsTo the strict deputy; bid herself assay him:I have great hope in that; for in her youthThere is a prone and speechless dialect,Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous artWhen she will play with reason and discourse,And well she can persuade.I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of thelike, which else would stand under grievousimposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who Iwould be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at agame of tick-tack. I'll to her.I thank you, good friend Lucio.Within two hours.Come, officer, away!